I want my 8 minutes back
I'd like to know who I have got to sue to get back the eight minutes of my life I wasted watching this thing (not that I did not call it a film).
The one thing that I can not figure out is just why a cool actor like Cliff Curtis (who has acted very well in a number of movies such as Once Where Warriors, Deep Rising with Jamie Lee Curtis, and River Queen with Tem Morrison) would let his Filmography be sullied with such rubbish - I'd bet he's missed out on some movie roles because he's linked to "henious crime", and casting staff would watch it and decide that a quality actor would never participate in this low level of amateur work.
I am personally insulted as a viewer and 48-Hour film fan that I am expected to believe that the finished product was this bad by design. I've seen a lot of other NZ shorts like "Jesse McLeod: The Journey" written by Te Radar (my hero) which are actually well made and deserving of a place in the 48 Hour film contest. This film would have been better as a finished product if the tape had been accidentally erased or run over by a truck before it was entered in to the contest.
This film is another nail in the coffin of Cohens possible career in film, along with his lack of humility during appearances on NZ television while his films have been shown at festivals (which did nothing to endear him in the hearts of New Zealanders). He will do well if he grows up and pulls his head in - you don't see Peter Jackson acting like a fruit during interviews, do you?
Hilarious
Taika once again shows how much fun a person can have by setting up a camera in front of themselves and putting on some silly wigs and funny teeth. And anyone not infected by this fun while watching this short, is taking the whole film making process and presumably themselves, far to seriously. Lets not forget this is the same guy who made the Oscar nominated short "Two cars, one night" he knows how to make a film. His 48 hour films are always a welcome oasis amongst the painfully amateur 'serious' films we all have to endure at any screening of 48 hour films. I only wish he would produce an entire TV series in the same vein.
So very VERY bad it made my eyes burn
The only thing worse than the diabolical quality of this film is the Director/Creators shameless and pitiful efforts to pass off the total lack of quality or professionalism as being on purpose. I am sad to report that, in an effort to be objective, while looking the short over for redeeming qualities I found none. The story, as it is, is poorly improvised and pointless. The sound is badly recorded, noisy and inconsistent. The camera-work is ineffective and totally amateur. The acting is... well, I wouldn't even call it acting.
The final product, in all fairness and without a word of exaggeration, is the kind of result you'd most likely get if you gave two teenagers with a long police record of disruptive behavior a twelve ounce bottle of vodka each, a broken VHS handy-cam held together with tape, and fifteen minutes to script and film the whole event. To think that this abortive slice of uncreative trash won the Wellington area competition puts the 48-Film festivals' credibility in dispute with the general public.
Should the attempt to make a "bad" piece of film on purpose actually have been the case, the camera-work and acting would have been endearing and funny, not outrageously pathetic to the point of upsetting the viewer. To even make the claim that it was this bad by design shows contempt for the viewing public. The reason it is so bad, in my ever so humble opinion, is because the people who made it where short on the talent stakes, and just plain old lazy.
If you are looking for a clever short that will make you smile, look for the other place getters for the 48-Hour film festival online - avoid this trash like the plague. I give it a solid -8.5 out of 10 .... that's right, NEGATIVE 8.5.
in response to the negative reviews...
...take another look. i didn't like it at first and thought 'what the hell did this win for?', but upon second and third viewings found myself doubled up with laughter. i mean, come on - "look! i'm a bat!" - that's brilliant! or "you seem to be having some serious continuity issues with your desk there, debbie".
i think understanding this film and it's genius requires its audience to be 48 hour participants themselves, or at least to be familiar with the competition. its blatant self-awareness and commentary on the required fields (genre, prop and line) make it a nice change from the many films that try and make themselves look like actual short films, which of course is pretty much impossible given the time constraints. although it may take a certain type of viewer, and a couple of viewings to 'get it', this is an utterly hilarious piece of work thrown together in what i'm assuming was actually less than 48 hours (given taika's participation in another entry that same weekend). love it : )
The very definition of schmaltz
Look, I get why everyone else loves this short film. They can probably see themselves in the characters and they think it's heartwarming. Unfortunately, I don't. What is intended to be a simple human connection comes across as forced and trite.
Forgettable children's romance film
"Two Cars, One Night" is a somewhat modern take on the story of Romeo & Juliet in the most unusual circumstances. It runs for 11 minutes and was directed and written by Taika Waititi over 10 years ago. And while none of the actors on here really managed a successful career, at least outside New Zealand, Waititi had his great international breakthrough recently with "What We Do in the Shadows", a somewhat different vampire movie.
However, for his work here he was nominated for an Oscar (and won many other awards all around the globe) and it went in the tradition of the Academy recognizing foreign films in the short film categories. Even if it lost to Andrea Arnold's "Wasp", this is quite an achievement. Sadly, I cannot share the appreciation. I thought this was not a particularly great watch and the child actors did not do a great job either. Also they did not seem likable to me, which they obviously were intended to be. All in all, a forgettable black-and-white film in my opinion. Also, even if an English native speaker, you may need subtitles for this one. Not recommended.
A vignette masterpiece
This film, while short, is nothing short of a masterpiece. It has everything covered, great acting, great camera work, great storyline and writing. The subject matter is rarely approached by filmmakers and I applaud Waititi and Co. in their artful piece.
You have no choice but love this
Watched this cute film twice. It were the best 24 minutes in last few weeks. So many thoughts after and it's just worth it. The way kids talk maybe quite unclear because of the accent but I guarantee you gonna really love Romeo and Polly. Sometimes good things happens in very unpleasant situations.
A nice little film that I had great difficulty understanding
This short film features two children as the stars and very few others. Both are stuck waiting in the cars for hours with nothing to do at night. The boy (about 9) at first is a jerk and does some pretty obnoxious things to get the older girl's attention. Later, however, the wall between them falls--both figuratively and literally--as they both get one of the cars together and talk. Nothing earth-shattering, but sweet.
What I focused on, though, was not their interaction but I kept wondering about their parents. After all, these are young kids and why are the parents in a pub while the kids are stuck outside? I guess being a parent and school teacher, I notice these things more than others.
Much of the problem enjoying this film was unique to me. I am losing my hearing and struggled desperately to understand the dialog. It really could have used closed captioning and I hate when films neglect to do this when they are broadcast on TV or placed on DVDs. This problem, though, should still be a problem (though perhaps not as bad) to other Americans watching the film because it was made in New Zealand and had a lot of colloquialisms that any American would struggle with interpreting. This means that TWO CARS, ONE NIGHT would probably play better for audiences at home as opposed to abroad.
A charming unassuming little film
Inside the Te Kaha pub the night is in full flow with drinkers enjoying themselves. Outside in the car park Romeo and his little brother Ed sit in the car awaiting the return of their father. Another car pulls up alongside, with twelve year old Polly also left in the car while her father goes for a drink. Bored out of his mind, Romeo starts taunting Polly from his car but what starts out childish insults changes with even the short time they share together in the anonymous car park.
Aside from the rather grating accents (to my ear at least) and the difficulty in quickly catching onto the dialect of the characters, I must confess that I found this a surprisingly fresh and charming short film. Another reviewer has stated that writer/director Cohen was aiming for something that looks at human contact and this has indeed been achieved. Filmed in a great black and white that feels dirty and lowdown (as opposed to the crisp and sexy b/w that many modern films will use) the film starts with a simple insult and builds from there. If it sounds simple then I suppose it is because it sort of is. However it works because the two characters are well written and well delivered to pace the development of this contact without making it feel corny or rushed.
The script works well but the director does well to draw good performances from the three children. Despite initially a bit put off by their appearance and accents, I was drawn in as they were by one another and found them really natural and engaging. Ngamoki is annoying at first but comes around well, while Waikato has an easy chemistry with him that makes it convincing. Ngamoki-Richards maybe has a small character but he is funny as little brother Ed.
Overall then a charming unassuming little film. It won't blow your mind with depth or messages but it is effective in what it does and it is as convincing as it is engaging.
Good things in Bad places
I saw this short text at school for English. I absolutely loved it! The whole black and white theme that creates a slightly horror and intense feeling which was a good idea. Also the non-digetic sounds made the movie seem serious but as the dialogue went on, it made me relax... Like an anti-climax.
Another good film technique was the high and low key lighting that was used to show what was dangerous and what was innocent and vulnerable. On one Mise en scene of the two cars captured my attention the most. It was a scene of darkness that surrounded the two cars. Yet, the two cars were brightly lit, making the audience see that the lit cars and the children inside had hope and happiness in a dark and dangerous place.
The director used these techniques to help us understand his intentions and his idea: Good things can happen in the worst situations.
Loves to Two Cars, One Night.
"Hey Ugly! Ugly girl!" What a nice greeting :D
Wonderfully Real, Stunningly Acted- A True Joy
Three children wait for their parent(s) in two separate cars in a parking lot outside a New Zealand saloon in the 1960's. The thrilling economy of direction, wonderful (although occasionally infuriatingly thick native accents make it tough to catch all of the asides) screenplay and some of the most natural and believable child actors make this a touching little miracle of a short film that rates with the best ever made. If an added touch of racism, or conflict between the parents were added, it would make the film perhaps even more effective. But this is simply about kids awkwardly dealing with the opposite sex with a touching naivete that will be remembered long after viewing. Really special.....an instant classic.
best NZ short film EVA!
Okay, i've seen loads of NZ short movies, and most of them are great - but this tops them all. It totally deserved the Oscar Nom. You'd probably have to be a NZer to get all the little jokes and negotiate the accent, but other than that it's pretty universal. Eg. "Ay, Ed, you're one of them Gay's ay Ed?" "Probably." That's probably classified as politically incorrect, but most good comedy is these days (paging South Park). That fact that the entire thing is in black and white cuts half of the visual side of it clean off, so the film relies ever so heavily on the child actors and the dialog. I won't give a word more of the film away, just go and watch this movie now, so you can see for yourself. (disclaimer: i give it only 9 out of 10 because it may not be to some people's taste, though i find that hard to believe!)
thought provoking
this film really hit home for me. originally from Te Kaha, NZ, i would have to sit in the car while my mum went in for drinks. sad as it was, those days, a lot of kids had to. i guess it was a normal thing back then. when i heard about this film and watched it, it put me to tears remembering that exact car park i had spent many nights at with my mates. but it also made me somewhat accept it. im not proud of what happened and i don't resent my mother for leaving me in the car, i just understand that, that was what happens.
i think this film sends many different messages to all. it could disgust people and it could expose people.
Very New Zealand, very real and easily lovable.
Although it may not seem so, this short film is set in the present day (hence the reference to Johnny Depp). Two brothers (Romeo & Ed) wait in a car outside the pub their parents are in, when another car pulls up, two people get out and enter the pub, leaving 12 year old Polly in the car. What starts out as taunting and awkward looks, turns into an unlikely friendship between Romeo and Polly (Ed is too busy reading to be interested). What makes this film all the more unique are the thick East Coast (of New Zealand) accents, which most New Zealanders can relate to and make the film extremely realistic. Human connection was the main premise in Two Cars, One Night's creation, as explained by its director Taika Waititi; "I want to show how human contact creates something special in a not so special environment." This really is a one of a kind film which shows the most simple things in life can make the biggest difference.
Will resonate with New Zealanders in particular
Kiwi here. Just watched this again on YT having seen it once, 10(?) years since, when it was broadcast on subscription TV. I'm prompted to weigh in having read the reviews on this site.
While not at all inaccessible to non-NZers, I see a lot of the imagery and interactions between the actors conveying a series of culturally coded ideas that would be more familiar to people who grew up in NZ when veterans of WWII were more widespread in our society. [damonisho: I believe the setting is the desultory fighting around the ruined town and monastery at Monte Cassino in 1944].
Beneath the uniforms, the grime, the physical burden of their equipment and privations, and the psychological oppression of imminent injury or death we are reminded that these are *boys*. When the anxiety of their isolated position and uncertainty as to the enemy's whereabouts abates to a degree, we see them revert to the boy-ish behaviours that are instantly recognisable to all boys via observation or first-hand experience. To the chap who decried the 'fart joke' I offer this context and, further, an observation that the NZ Army in this era was very much an adjunct of the British Army whose regulations offered scant accommodation for the cultural idiosyncracies of non-British service men and women. Yes, there are displayed a few well-travelled tropes, not least of all the "All Quiet on the Western Front" homage, albeit from the other side of the telescopic sight. None of these detract from my appreciation of a short story in film that I still find moving.
PS Many years ago I watched a prominent Maori politician being interviewed for a documentary television programme about Maori humour in which he recounted, "To an Englishman a situation can be serious but it is never hopeless; to Maori a situation can be hopeless .... but it is never serious". Doubtless this is not original and I expect some variation of this 'not-quite-a-joke' exists in every society. For those with sufficient time and inclination I'd recommend heading over to the NZ Electronic Text Collection, a digitisation project administered by Victoria University of Wellington, and read the official history for 28 (Maori) Battalion. Written in an era where issues of cultural difference didn't immediately induce a duck-and-cover reversion to bland non-speak until the "news cycle" had progressed, it is revelatory regarding the colonialist attitudes that dogged the battalion's formation, eg insistence that all the officers be British or of British extraction, and the ways and means by which these changed as the war progressed. It's also replete with anecdotes that illustrate the quote at the head of this paragraph.
Not for me
"Tama tu" is a 17-minute live action short film from 2005, so this one is already over 10 years old. It has received a bit more attention recently again as Waititi's Hollywood career is really turning into something special these days, more of an actor though as of a filmmaker, but with this one here he is the writer and director. And this little movie really received a great deal of awards attention at actually relatively important events too like Palm Springs, Berlin and Sundance, maybe also because Waititi was an Oscar nominee at this point already, so a somewhat big name actually. Well not really that big though. Anyway, there is no spoken dialogue in here, so no matter where you are from, you won't need any subtitles. This is the story of a couple soldiers sitting in a deserted house and apparently not having to go into battle already (again). We watch them in the ways they spend their time their and witness their interactions with each other. It is a rather light movie, even if the comedy also may have to do with them trying to forget the cruelties of war. But is it a good movie? I dare say no. Even if not all the moments are so weak like when Waititi relied on fart-related humor, there is still nothing memorable about this one. I am baffled by the awards attention it received, but maybe then Waititi is just not my preferred choice as a filmmaker as I remember finding his Oscar-nominated work really overrated too. Back to this one here, i give it a thumbs-down as you maybe already guessed correctly. Don't watch.
well-told story without narrative or dialogue
Set in World War I, 6 Maori soldiers fighting for New Zealand, have become separated from their battalion. They make their way through the bombed out buildings of an evacuated town in the twilight of dawn. Low on ammunition, they hole up for the day in a ruined apartment building. To lessen their chance of being detected by the enemy, they wordlessly agree not to speak. With little water and no food, constantly on their guard, the sound of battle in the distance, their predicament seems dire and desperate.
But these six men, drawing on their shared culture, know how to make the best of a bad situation. The performances of the actors are wonderful to see; each actor, without speaking, deftly breathes life into his character, until the audience knows each personality. Cinematography is very good and the lighting is spectacular. The director succeeds beautifully in using a silent war story to tell the audience about compassion, camaraderie, humour, courage, and tenderness.
I saw this short as part of National Geographic "All Roads" project called "A Short Trip Around the World". Tama Tu was the only dramatic offering of this uneven collection of shorts and stands far above the level of the other pieces. But I would recommend seeing all of "Short Trip" if that's the only way that you can get to see this wonderful film.
An excellent short film
I love the way that Taika Cohen who also made "Two Cars One Night" celebrates the little moments in life where we reveal our humanity. If that sounds cheesy, then it's my fault, not Cohen's. His two wonderful shorts capture these moments without sentimentality. I believe that this is his greatest strength: two kids fall in love in a pub car park at night; a platoon of Maori soldiers show respect for victims of war while they are themselves in danger. The shorts are uplifting but real and gritty, both in black and white or muted color, no eye candy, nothing false.
This little film started slowly for me. I couldn't really be less interested in group of guys running through a ruined town then hiding in a bombed out building. Then the story starts and with it the humor and warmth. There is no dialogue at all, little music and hardly any color. And yet the story is tells is super. There's more characterization in 15 minutes here that in 3 and a half hours of King Kong, another NZ film! (Actually, that's really mean, but I still think that this director has more to say to us than Peter Jackson has right now.) Watch out for Taika Cohen
Fun little film
This movie is more comical than anything. That's not to say it's a laugh riot - we are constantly reminded this is war and that people die. Thus there is a tension in the air (among other smelly things) throughout the comic proceedings. I like how it didn't say that there are good guys or bad guys just soldiers doing their jobs and trying to lighten up despite the pressures. It really shows a lot about camaraderie. I also thought the black crow that appears (maybe a raven I couldn't tell) was cool since the tone shifts entirely on one symbol and the end makes you wish it hadn't ended. Funky little short I wouldn't mind watching again 8/10
Magnificent
This comedy movie is one of the best comedies that you can see. Taika Waititi is a great actor and director
An early indicator of a successful feature film
"What We Do in the Shadows: Interviews with Some Vampires" is a live action short film from New Zealand that was made over 10 years ago and people will immediately recognize the connection to the successful full feature film from last year. Both were made by 7-time Emmy nominee Jemaine Clement and Oscar nominee Taika Waititi and focus on the pretty ordinary life of vampires. This one here runs for shortly under half an hour and deals with the subject of how a trio of vampires lives together in an apartment and they need to make sure everybody fulfills his cleaning duties. But of course they also need the blood. In one of the funniest moments of the film, there is talk about a virgin being like a sandwich that nobody has eaten before. In general, the humor and line delivery here felt a lot like the approach Sacha Baron Cohen gives his comedy. I think it is a really good watch for people who enjoy (somewhat different = not creepy) vampire films. Go check it out and if you like it, see the new movie that came out a year ago or two.
Interesting, but watch the feature film first
This is the short (half hour) early version of what in 2014 became the feature film 'What We Do in the Shadows'. The 2014 film is brilliant, inventive, quirky, and side-splittingly funny. But that's the later 2014 film. THIS short film shows the trio creating their characters, and so it's really a rough sketch of what later becomes a great painting. I'm pretty sure that if I'd seen this short first, I'd never have watched the feature film, and that would be sad.
So my advice is, watch the 2014 full-length film first, then watch this short to learn a little about the amazing transformations that can occur in the creative process.
Mildly interesting for fans, but not nearly the film that the 2014 incarnation was.
This is a short film that eventually was remade as a brilliant full- length film, "What We Do in the Shadows". Apparently this short floated around the internet for a while and was used to try to secure funding for the later movie.
What I immediately noticed about this 27 minute short is that it's incredibly low energy compared to the later film. The camera is nearly always stationary, the actors portraying the vampires sound almost as if they are half-asleep and the jokes are very, very few. Because of this, it's not a must-see for fans of the later movie. A few other things you will notice if you watch this one is that the actors' voices are a bit harder to understand as the prosthetic vampire teeth apparently were difficult to talk with clearly. And, the music is very cheap and simple....as is this film itself. Not a terrible film but one that is a mere shadow of its later incarnation and not terribly enjoyable.
Eagle with a few things to work through
Hillarious, beautiful, and sensitive. Great soundtrack too. Taikia Waititi makes some great films and this is one of my favourites. It's independent so don't expect flash production, just enjoy.
my new fave movie.
I still dk how to make a review on google so i made an imdb acc just to write a review on this movie lol. I loved this movie sm. I love taika waititi's movies and this one did not dissapoint. I love how deep this movie is it really hit hard. I also really love the movie because i can actually relate to the characters. I love the humour of the movie and jarrod is FINE. I couldn't sleep that night cuz i jus tkept thinking and thinking abt the movie lol. I just analyze it all the time lol. The foreshadowing too. Proud to be a kiwi and i really hope ill be able to visit these places in wellington someday.
Fantastic Movie
It's 2021. And I wondering this fascinating movie. It's simple, quirky, funny and well written. This movie is about relationship, self discovery with beautiful moments. MUST WATCH!!
It get's better with each viewing..
You can say that this film, with its ensemble of akwardly sweet characters and witty dialogue, is not your typical rom-com. Which is why this film is easily one of my favourites from this genre. Mainly the story centers around two oddball characters and their attempt of being in a relationship and basically everything that follows after one begins a relationship. Getting to know one another, each others families etc. But given the nature of our characters it does not seem to be as easy-going as it should be. With each viewing I find this film to be both entertaining and refreshing. Whether it's Jarrod's obnoxiously humorous remarks or Lily's awkwardly endearing persona, regardless the not so pleasant situations she seems to face throughout the film. Eagle vs Shark is just one of those feel good movies that doesn't take itself very seriously. Not to mention the breathtaking scenery of New Zealand that matches the great soundtrack perfectly.
Wierd...
It's kinda like a fever dream during a romcom. Imagine Garden State if Kevin Smith directed it, if it sounds like your thing give it a watch. It's nice and easy entertainment with a good bit of Waititi humor.
lovely!
Taika's first feature film was delightful and fun. I loved Lilly and Jarrod was hilarious but towards the end of the movie, I stopped having sympathy for him, which I'm sure was the point. I just feel like he could have been more likable. I've watched all of Taika's films and I will say that this one is the worst. That being said, I still love it! Cute movie.
Socially awkward and nerdy.... fun!
I think there is a certain interest for the comedy of social awkwardness required for linking this movie. The story that in itself is not challenging or controverse, is giving it's interesting edge because the whole thing is dispersed with the atmosphere of misunderstanding, social inaptitude, and awkward silences. It is this feature that also made this movie interesting for me. Every scene contains this tension between characters, a lot of the time between the two main characters. But also the rest of the family are each caricatures of people who do not have the social (or physical) ability to make it in society.
Of course the comparison with Napoleon Dynamite is inevitable, as is also seen in a lot of comments on Eagle vs Shark. In that sense I see an important difference that puts the portrayed social atmosphere in both films in a different daylight: in Napoleon Dynamite there is a constant relation of the socially awkward people to the 'normal' high school kids, like jocks and all that. In Eagle vs Shark this relation is not really present (perhaps at the end when Jarod fights the jock (again) Eric form high school), so the viewer gets used to this social atmosphere.
All in all I think Taika Waititi achieved to portray this non-communicative, twisted atmosphere that is present in the family of Jarod and between Jarod and Lily in a very good way. Sure, there is a different touch to it than in Napoleon Dynamite, and I feel that the latter is portraying this image in a stronger way through the introduction of regular successful persons, but Eagle vs Shark is nevertheless interesting and fun to see.
Only 6.8? I don't get it.
I don't actually remember the last time I gave a movie 10 out of 10. I certainly wasn't expecting to feel this way after the usual pre-judgement I give on films after seeing their IMDb rating which I have to get out of. A friend had told me to see this for ages, a friend who is a huge fan of Taika Waititi. I had seen Boy which I liked, but I have to say I enjoyed Eagle vs. Shark a LOT more. Perhaps it's because I really related to the story and found it hilarious, sweet and heartbreaking all at the same time. The characters are misfits and nerds, but accentuated for the purpose of the film - however not making it contrived. You start to really care for the characters and empathise with them greatly. Loren Horsley (Lily) is wonderful at playing a shy, awkward and innocent girl who has a crush on the magnificently stylish *cough* Jemaine Clement (Jarrod). This is possibly my favourite on-screen romance in a film, along with Eternal Sunshine of the Spotless Mind and Lost in Translation. The way Taika Waititi plays on human quirks, tenderness and embarrassing elements to people's personalities is utter genius. His style of filmmaking is what I would call the opposite of pretentious, and has the ability to bring both joy and tears to the viewer. This is what happened to me when I watched this film. Do not pass it by.
The gift that keeps on giving
Each time I watch it I get more out of it, and I've probably watched it more times than I should have. Subtle, insightful, sad but clad in the best trackies. This movie will kick your arse.
get out of the car i want your coat, your boots and your motorcycle
Absolutely brilliant - i think even better than Napoleon Dynamite. A Sad real life film , but so funny and so clever. A lot of remedial losers in the movie but they are lovable and kind. Showing that love shines through and that there's someone for everyone. Watch out for the road trip Arnie impression by the brother , its one of the funniest movie clips i've ever seen. i cannot watch it and not laugh. This is a dramedy at its best and superb acting throughout. It reminds me in places of "Little miss sunshine" and "Muriels Wedding" rolled into one. I had to watch it twice in 2 days as i wanted to see my Sons reactions to the movie. he reacted like me and was glued to it. One of those movies i wished i'd never seen so that i could have the pleasure of watching it for the first time AGAIN AND AGAIN
If You Can Last The First 10 Minutes - You'll Love It !!
Well i loved the movie "Boy" so much - That i thought i should look at the movie Taika Waititi made a few years earlier... "Eagle vs Shark".
The first 10 minutes had me searching for my remote control... I just could not get into the opening scene. But my advice is to stick with this one a few minutes longer. It does get better and you will want to see what happens next.
There are definite hints of "Boy" in this movie... Almost as though writer/director Taika Waititi was testing the water to hone his skills.
It's not a Hollywood movie polished to within an inch of it's life. It's small and raw and easy to enjoy. I love movies like this... What you see is what you get. It will give you a good laugh and a happy ending.
I thought it was going to be satire...
...about rom-coms, but it's not! Jarrod is an absolute jerk to Lily for the entire movie, but then they end up together because he brought her flowers to make up for it. After not undergoing any kind of growth as a character. It sends the message that a woman should accept any type of behavior from her male partner because he probably just doesn't know any better, and you have to teach him. One of the worst movies I've ever seen.
Return of the outsiders
Eagle Vs Shark is a roller-coaster ride of funny and rather depressing moments. On the whole its almost as cute as Napoleon Dynamite, but it suffers from being a bit too predictable and sometimes it feels like it tries too hard to imitate the humor of the American equivalent.
The characters are well played, the soundtrack is great, I never found it too slow / drawn-out which was a big plus. I thought the funniest character in the movie was the hacker, Mason, who delivers some of the funniest lines in the movie.
All in all, well worth watching for the laughs, total cuteness of the characters and the wonderful soundtrack which really fits the atmosphere of the movie.
The last romantic hero...is a woman
After a summer night of mellow festival dancing, we ended up in sleeping bags watching the open air screening of this film. The drizzling sound of light rain, which the sweltering heat turned into immediate steam, fed into our personal soundtrack and added another side to romanticism.
This exceptional film entertains a sweet awkwardness which is glamorously embodied by its two main protagonists. Cartoonish movements, looks and dialogues convey the insecurities of almost grown-ups.
To begin with we are asked to be open-minded and to step bravely into a world where adults live in kids' universes. In this strange dimension we are confronted with the seemingly classical tale of girl meets boy. But the film offers us another take on love. We are drawn into a beautifully funny and sad tale about outsiders, wannabes and true heroes.
By the video game scene at the latest we realise who is true hero and who is mere sidekick. We encounter another or maybe even truer version of the shiny knight who is mesmerising the audience not by out-shining everyone else or by occupying the centre stage but by holding back for the sake of others. More so, we are invited to discover who is usually absent in the tales of shiny armour and chivalry: the person who makes the hero. This person turns out to be the secret star of the film. She breaks our hearts because she is the one who loves. We are falling slowly for her and for her persistence which at some point excels our own.
Confronted with the sweltering heat of a long festival summer and with the painfully enduring love of a heroic female, some of us fell asleep with sweaty eyes and blazing hearts.
Napoleon Dynamite - funny = not a good movie
I have seen some of the Flight of the Conchords TV episodes, and found Jemaine Clement to be rather hilarious. However, this movie felt like Napoleon Dynamite without the funny. There were the occasional funny parts (the Mortal Kombat spoof game). Maybe I am just sick of this type of humor, but it overall just didn't do anything for me. I tried this movie out mostly because of the IMDb rating, which usually doesn't lead me a stray...but this is the first review that has had a good rating that I most certainly don't agree with. If you have a weird sense of humor give this one a try, otherwise I wouldn't recommend it. If this show is ever on TV someday, then it would probably be worth watching.
A modern day Peter Pan
Eagle vs. Shark is a love story of two lonely people, who're socially distant - to say the least - from 'normality'. But what is normality anyways? Is it necessarily something that one should reach for? That's one of the main questions that Taika Cohen raises, and also the very thing that makes this piece quite extraordinary in its own way. It's like a reformed version of Peter Pan.
Though Eagle vs. Shark is a love story and a comedy, romantic comedy isn't a very good word for it. It actually has a lot of tragical aspects to it, and it isn't all that lighthearted one might assume. It's a tragicomical story of two social misfits - one of which has stuck in a childlike behaviour because of all of the trauma he has faced in his past, and the other one who feels like a total outcast of the society, because of all of the rejection she has faced in her social life.
Eagle vs. Shark has often been compared to "Little Miss Sunshine" and it does have - besides the somewhat similar type of humour - one major similarity in it's themes - the importance of family. It is the route and solution to all of their heartaches and traumas. Having one might drive you in to madness, but not having one is just twice as awful. This is also at the same time the strongest, and the weakest link of Eagle vs Shark. Since the family issues are thematically the whole core of the movie, it should have concentrated more on those issues. It passes the whole subject too hastely - thus sadly never reaching such depth in it's characters that it could have reached.
Eagle vs. Shark manages not to fall in to any of the typical romance clichés. It goes by it's own heartwarmingly peculiar ways from the beginning to the end, balancing between comedy and drama the whole way. It's almost impossible to even categorize it in any way. Even though I wouldn't cinematically call it a masterpiece or anything, it still is really a one of a kind.
Shark + Eagle = Brilliant!
This is by far one of the funniest and best made comedies I have seen in years! Shark vs Eagle's core is its delightfully awkward yet brilliantly hilarious situations, accompanied by quirky, yet lovable characters. My hat is off to director/writer Taika Cohen, because he has brought together perfect timing both in the jokes and plot of the film. While the type of awkward humor is very similar to many other comedies nowadays (ie. Napoleon Dynamite, The Life Aquatic), Shark vs. Eagle succeeds where some of those films floundered through the sincere childlike emotions at the core of the characters. These tones are then stylistically represented by some purposefully elementary stop-motion animation, bringing together the childlike feelings that the film emotes so well. All around Shark vs. Eagle is an endearing and hysterical comedy that I will remember for years to come. And I look forward to Taika Cohen's future works!
Something Different and Fun RomCom
There is something serene about the whole movie. The setting and shots were taken with some artistic effects. The comedy is fun and not forced. It was easy to relate with the main characters and their struggle to find love or revenge.
According to my rating strategy : Story : 1.5/2 (Awesome), Task Fulfillment : 1/1, Directing, Cinematography and Soundtrack : 1.5/2 (Awesome), Cast : 1.5/2, Viewer : 1.5/2, Wow Factor: 0/1
why imitate?
Maybe they made this movie in New Zealand before anyone saw Napoleon Dynamite, or had cars or something. But it felt late and boring and you have to wonder why they made it.
It was cute but that gets old very fast. You don't know why these characters are so silly and pretty soon you don't care. It had some funny moments from time to time and was never stupid but you get kind of bored. And it really seemed to imitate Napoleon Dynamite.
Some of the costumes are funny and I like deadpan humor. There were some scenes that were good that way, but in the end it is not enough.
I think there can be more movies from this director but maybe the story will be better, and they will no that you have to make the story bigger.
2 thumbs down
I am always open to movies of all and every kind, unfortunately this one didn't do anything for me. I wasn't really invested in the characters, I didn't find it funny or even amusing at all, just somewhat odd. It plodded on and bored me, but I went down with the ship by watching til the credits finally put me out my misery. Seemed like it had potential at the start but like a untied balloon quickly deflated with a farty kind of noise. I wouldn't recommend this movie to anyone. I'm certain you would be able to fill up your time with more productive and worthwhile activities than by viewing this. I am now just typing to fill up the minimum 10 lines for a review, there isn't much else to say about this film. That is all.
Flies and sinks
Jarrod likes video games and trains to fight an old schoolyard bully. He is an indulgent, depressed individual and believes the bully is responsible for all his problems. Along for the ride is Lily, a young woman recently fired from a fast food store, who has fallen in love with him. It's a quirky comedy about two social misfits in the spirit of Napolean Dynamite, with the key difference that Napolean was still in high school, whereas Jarrod is 28. That decade gap makes all the difference, as it is quite unbelievable a man of his age would still be so immature, and pursue such a course of action, to the point he attacks a cripple with nunchucks. As Jermaine Clement, of Flight of the Concords fame, was cast as Jarrod, but not credited as a writer, it makes me think the original script might have been initially written with a teenage lead, only to be cast with a name actor for marketing appeal. At least there was Lily, excellently played by Loren Taylor, who filled the screen with humble sweetness, and gave Jarrod a saint-like love, far beyond what he deserved. It was funny at times and heartfelt at others, but also quite painful.
Eagle vs. Shark: A Review
Let me begin by saying that I have only recently discovered Flight of the Conchords. I was introduced to their television series by a friend and because I enjoyed it I took an interest in where this series originated from. I now understand that Jemaine Clement and Brett McKenzie are a comedy duo which have been together for a number of years. Scrolling through youtube it is apparent that the songs present in the series have existed for a long time and have only recently been put into a sit-com format. Now, this is not a review of FOTC, but a review of Eagle vs. Shark; but an important point is that viewing this movie retrospectively is the best way to go. I think most people would get enjoyment from seeing Jemaine in a 'different' (pinch of salt) role whereas if Eagle vs. Shark is your first exposure to Mr. Clement then you might not enjoy it as much.
This movie was exactly my cup of tea. My favourite kind of films are slow, script-driven films with awkward humour and an aesthetic that most major movie goers probably wouldn't enjoy (such as The Royal Tennenbaums, Lost in Translation (which actually did very very well, I do not know how - maybe the Copolla connection), or The Life Aquatic).
I have read comments by people saying they couldn't understand the attraction to Jarrod (Clement's character) because he is rather dissatisfied with his life, and clearly places emphasis on unimportant things. However, I disagree. In my opinion, Jarrod is a lonely guy but he's not exactly looking for anything. He has two things in his mind, the first is to get revenge on a high-school bully who, in Jarrod's words, '...ruined my life'. Secondly, he wants to gain his father's approval. Unfortunately for Jarrod, his brother (played by the film's director) was a model son, successfully in a variety of endeavours, notably running (we see Jarrod's father reminiscing to an old tape of Jarrod's brother winning a running championship). Jarrod cannot compete with his brother, but one of the biggest twists, is that Jarrod's brother committed suicide a few years ago, as a result (or at least Jarrod's father has convinced himself) of a pushy parent (his father). Wrecked with guilt, Jarrod's father sits traumatised, unable to relate to a family he feels responsible for breaking. Fortunately for Jarrod's father, Lily (a charming, yet quiet girl) sees something appealing in Jarrod (usually in a film about awkward love, the two lovers are usually thoroughly nice people who lack confidence - however Jarrod is full of it! Believing his is some kind of heroic, fighting machine - probably triggered by his previously undeniable skills at the computer game Fight Man).
Without giving everything away, Lily refuses to give up on Jarrod and becomes an inspiration to Jarrod and his family. Jarrod's sister and her husband are the owners of a failed business selling tracksuits who find some financial solitude in Lily who buys most of their products! Secondly, in a charming excerpt Jarrod's father asks Lily to 'take me away from here'. Only through Lily's eyes can the family see that maybe all is not lost, and in the touching finale, Jarrod and Lily, accompanied by his family decide to give it a try. Importantly, the family accompany Lily to the bus station, and they are unsure as to whether Jarrod will be there waiting for her. This represents the idea that Lily is as important, if not more important, than Jarrod to Jarrod's family than Jarrod himself.
This film is quiet, reserved and is brought to life by short animated scenes and a brilliant soundtrack which cannot be bought on UK itunes unfortunately! It has been compared to Napoleon Dynamite, but I think it has more to it, I certainly finished watching this film with a sense of accomplishment for the characters, whereas, in my opinion, Napoleon Dynamite was weird for the sake of it.
One more point is that Lily is absolutely charming, and if the clips on youtube that i've seen are anything to go by, the New Zealand accent has been replaced by American voice-overs. This is absolutely devastating to the film. Half of Lily's charm is her accent and her delivery of her lines. If American audiences cannot understand the accent, then subtitle it, over-dubbing ruins the whole feel of the film.
Shark is Dynamite! But Eagle.... isn't
Loren Horsley was very endearing as Lily; I liked her immediately! .... and I noticed all of the not-so-subtle Napoleon Dynamite similarities. That was actually the problem. I was constantly comparing Jarod to Napoleon and Jarod failed to measure up miserably.. not amusingly.
I liked Napoleon the first time I watched that movie.. enough to finish it and think it was 'eh, quirky... not bad'. Then it grew on me during successive viewings (in which I had a few drinks as well), and after some of my friends started nailing the voice and some of the quotes gained popularity.
I didn't delete Eagle vs. Shark, and may take another stab at it on another night.. maybe I'll have a few drinks some other time and try it again. I really liked Lily; absolutely adorable girl. She deserved so much better than Jarod, which kind of irritated me. They were obviously going after the Napolon Dynamite crowd, but Jarod .... just isn't dynamite.
The wit is in the details
"Eagle vs Shark," is a quirky romantic comedy that finds most of its humor in dialogue and absurd situations. The film is easily compared to "Napoleon Dynamite," in that the characters are socially awkward and the story revels in the common everyday happenings of less than extraordinary people. The comparison breaks down in regards to the subject matter and themes explored. EvS is a story of how romantic and familial relationships develop. The film strives to create a humorous story that is actually quite reflective of how many people lead their lives. The effect is a touching and funny film that is extremely easy to relate to.
Some qualification is necessary for the above. Many audience members will not have the exact experiences as those in the film. That said, the plights, thought patterns, and actions of the main characters remain hauntingly familiar. For example, the love interest of the two mid-twenty-somethings springs from the retail work place. As these two currently aimless drifters knock into each other, the results are far from surprising. We soon learn that nerdy-ness has not created some reclusive pop culture obsessives. Rather, these are people who have developed coping mechanisms that are odd but highly effective. Both characters, as one would expect, are not shy about sex, giving opinions, their own societal position and the social status that they desire. Essentially, these are very realistic "dorks" going about their wonderfully idiosyncratic lives. Furthermore, these are adult dorks dealing with the issues that matter most to the target audience, namely, adult relationships and interaction. The loving development of realistic characters working within an entertaining story allows this romantic comedy to be fresh, unpretentious, and very easy to empathize with.
While the above clearly demonstrates my personal attitudes, I do believe the film is open to some criticism. The humor is comprised of mostly dialogue driven quips and absurdities. The viewer is treated to humor that is highly contextualized and therefore not generally funny. The film, basically, provides very little repeatable humor. To be more clear, the film is akin to watching an inside joke. Just as close friends jibe and tease with words and phrases that hold significance due to the relationship, EvS is filled with personality and relationship based humor. This can be a turn off. The film rarely makes one laugh out loud. Rather, EvS is more of a constant chuckle and snort fest.
As to the technical aspects of the film, they are all well done and professional. The editing leads to a well paced film that does not really feel like 90 minutes. The scenery and shot composition highlight the beauties of New Zealand as well as the slipshod attempts of space personalization by the lower middle class (i.e. Jarrod's mounting of Ninja weapons on the wall). The acting and scripting, as mentioned above, are realistic and nuanced. Overall, this is very well done comedy that manages a great deal of heartfelt and awkward realism.
On a personal note, I will be recommending this film to anyone who will listen. Unlike many indies, EvS is highly accessible, romantic and funny to boot. In essence, the film is and deserves to be seen because it is refreshing and optimistic. 8.4 of 10 stars.
Love is awkward
I don't frequently repeat movies, but I've found that this is one that I can watch more than once and still experience the same highs and lows that I did the first time.
You get to watch two stories in this enjoyable little offering, the actual story of Lily and Jarrod and a charming animated movie that reflects what's happening.
It's a bit jarring when you first see it. As a movie-goer you're accustomed to standard-issue attractive faces and bodies, spunky heroines and their boyishly charming love interests. By contrast, quiet, ground-down Lily and Jarrod with his complete lack of self-awareness take some getting used to, but they are not without things to like about them. And watching Lily blossom and grow more confident, not because of Jarrod, but because she's learning to like herself, is wonderfully inspiring.
A difficult movie to start, but an easy movie to love, a little awkward, but able to be settled into quickly. Like the characters themselves, if you give it a chance, you're almost guaranteed to love it.
Eagle vs Shark (2007) - 6.2
Eagle vs Shark (2007) - 6.2
Act 1 - 5.8
Act 2 - 6.3
Act 3 - 6.6
One of the most indie movies I've ever seen, takes place in rural Nee Zealand
Two incredibly awkward people form a romantic relationship
Can be funny at times but is mostly just uncomfortably awkward
Lily seems desperate for love with anyone and Jarrod is a complete dick who doesn't understand that he is a loser
I just feel bad for this girl because she is really sweet and Jarrod is an oblivious dick
Jarrod is very insecure and talks up everything to make things seem important in is insignificant life, overcompensates because he is obviously the disappointment of the family
I truly hate Jarrod, they obviously meant for this character to be infuriating and he is
Movie gets better as it goes
Jarrod's fight for revenge leads to the big reveal that his school enemy is now in a wheelchair
Very funny payoff with him still attacking him and then losing the fight, laugh out loud funny
I don't like that they end up together as Lily has developed into a more full and confident character and Jarrod has been an awful person throughout the film, he sucks
Great Indie Comedy
EAGLE VS SHARK is a cute little movie about a couple of oddballs who sort of fall in love, and some other stuff happens. It's a very sweet, touching story. You might even cry at times. But even so, it never for a second stops being hilariously funny.
Everything about this film is great. The style and tone are perfect and the acting is wonderful. The music is awesome too. It's pure fun. I've seen it many times and I keep finding myself coming back to it. And I find something new every time I watch it. Highly recommend.
Do yourself a favor and avoid this
THIS MOVIE SUCKED!!! Let me preface this review by saying I'm a huge Jermaine Clement fan. I have all the flight of the Conchords DVDs/TV Specials/CDs. This movie didn't work for me, because Jerrod was an unlikable bombastic jerk without any redeemable qualities. That's not to say a movie can't work with somebody you love to hate but it doesn't work in this film. You keep on asking yourself why would Lilly like Jerrod? The film never answers that question. This movie lacks originality. It plays like a cheap Napoleon Dynamite rip off without the charm. I wanted to love this movie but I found myself completely bored and empty at the movies end. Do yourself a favor and avoid this movie at all cost.
Loved It!!
Though I am an avid IMDb peruser I rarely feel compelled to comment on most of the movies I see.
Not the case with Eagle Vs. Shark.
I absolutely loved this film.
Though the story is awkward and a bit uncomfortable at times you can't help but fall in love with it. The characters are endearing, the laughs are many and the payoff is worth every moment. It's a hilariously sweet movie with heart. Most definitely worth a watch! Just thinking about it now has me smiling.
So good. So good.
What a weird movie ~ Spoilers
Everyone I talked to could only say this was a strange film. It wasn't bad, but I would NOT call it good.
I saw it at Sundance and while they tend to have some really obscure story lines and actors this was very bizarre.
I found it hard to believe that a girl from such a well balanced, functional background would put up with such a strange, dysfunctional dork. She was a sympathetic character but he was not. I never did care for him. There were so many places where there could have been character redemption that were ignored.
The father in the wheel chair was never even addressed. Very strange.At the very end of the movie (when they were the only ones on the bus~ what was up with that?) when he said, "Horse" was the first glimmer that he might actually be worth saving.
This had potential, but it was not taken when available.
Needs more Pedro....
Another Nerd Power film with Taika WTF humor blended in. I'm surprised my kids didn't enjoy this more as they are the ones who turned me on to Watiti. Maybe how the "big fight scene" was handled I dunno. Or maybe Lilly-philia, the what does she see in him vibe might be overpowering for some?
Seeing this late vs its release date, but if you are familiar with his work, and enjoy Jemaine Clement and his patented clueless swagger, then this should still be a good enough time.
"I Guess I've Got to Keep Creating or I'll Just Die"
Taika's directorial debut is a lowkey hipster romance affair with surprising depth. It's all awkward interactions and off-key stop motion interludes but it does have his characteristic charm in spades. It got bundled along with a load of other similar indie titles at the time and it doesn't break any molds particularly but it does work and as a gateway project you can see the shapes of things to come.
No words to describe...
just how terrible this movie was... An underachiever, who has been obsessing about the bully who tortured him in high school, decides he wants to get even. To hell with this indie-crap. Seriously... Why make a movie about a loser who doesn't prevail. The characters were one-dimensional. Even though there was enough substance in the basic idea to make them likable, even to a point where you could identify with him. But no, let's try to score cheap laughs - trust me, they are cheap - by making almost every scene in this movie awkward. The only character that had any real depth was the father. At least this character had some realism in him. Why not make this into a drama? This would've been an excellent drama. Then point out the fact that his brother died, his mom is a lesbian and he lies to everyone about everything. This would've been one of the most complex characters ever.
One of the worst movies of the year, coming in this late, it's quite the achievement.
not your average comedy
This fidgety, awkward comedy is a must see for everyone simply because of the fact that it is so unordinary. While most comedies these days are built off of one-liners and sight gags, this movie while have you rolling on the floor in laughter because of it's sheer unpredictable nature. Although its main aim is to push the boundaries of comedy, Eagle vs Shark could be considered a truly romantic love story because of the awkward yet caring relationship between its main stars.
This movie also seemed to really grab my attention, which is very rare in the comedy genre. For once i found myself caring about the characters... when they were frustrated or upset so was i.
Overall Eagle vs Shark is a must see for anyone in search of something slightly out of the ordinary.
Why are there no films about nerds directed by nerds?
Saw this at a regular theater in Kansas City, Missouri - surprised that this film would even play there, I made sure to see it just to support the idea of having a wider range of films at this particular multiplex.
I can't say I loved it, or "Napoleon Dynamite", it's predecessor. Mostly because I was at least as socially unacceptable as the two lead characters in this film (and probably still am). And neither this director or the director of "Napoleon Dynamite" actually understand these type of people. The directors who were actually huge nerds - like Quentin Tarintino - don't make films about nerds. Instead, they make films about the cool people they wish they were, they people that they imagined they could be from the movies they've seen.
And, as typical, they cast a beautiful woman. In order to make her less beautiful, she spends the first third of the film with her face screwed up in various goofy expressions. She could have learned a lot by seeing Todd Solondz "Welcome to the Dollhouse". As Stephen King pointed out in his memorable review of "The Lawnmower Man" - "In Hollywood movies geeks are never really unsightly, they just have bad haircuts".
I wish I could have enjoyed this film more.
Really cool debut
Taika's humor works really well in this one but unfortunatelly everything else is kinda bland. I really enjoy the first half of the movie but I lost interest at the end. The performances are great, the movie is entertaining but there is something missing for me, something I found in his other movies... I think he combined comedy and drama better in his later movies but this is still an impressive debut!
Very NZ.
Eagle vs. Shark is an excellent example of a sort of comedy that New Zealand seems largely to have invented, best represented to the rest of the world by Flight of the Conchords. Essentially, you take characters who are perennial losers and make them play it so straight you can't help but love them. Someone here compared this movie to Napoleon Dynamite, and while it's not a perfect correlation, that's more or less it. (The characters in the Yank movie are more demonstrative and actively absurd, but the angle is the same.)
This film in particular is deceptively simple, but viewers who watch closely will see quite a bit of depth. Characters who start out as painfully awkward or embarrassing slowly become endearing; their two-dimensional cartoon-character roles expand ever so subtly into three dimensions, and earn your respect and affection. You'll care about them in the end, perhaps somewhat against your will.
It's also funny, in that way that suddenly and unexpectedly makes you laugh out loud, generally at some small turn of phrase or actor's expression.
I don't know what all this says about New Zealanders, but as a Canadian, I'm picking up some commonalities. God save the Queen, you hosers.
Good movie, eh? See it.
Not funny but quite depressing
To be honest, I love some of my independent movies but this one was actually awful. From the beginning, I found it depressing, not funny at all except if you enjoy taking the p*ss of people that have mental disabilities... The "gag/jokes" were predictable and lame.
At some point I found it gross even though the movie in itself wasn't. I guess it's just that I didn't found that the situation of both character was laughable..
As it was stated in the main user comment, it is not gross such as the Borat movie but at least I found the latter funny, picking up on important point on our society, showing our defaults (mainly our ignorance and intolerance). The Borat movie was not at all about sex, p*o and p*e but it was satire. And if the user that wrote the main comment didn't understand that, I do not understand what he/she saw in Eagle and Shark...
The only good point is that the actors played well but even if you play well in a rubb*sh movie, it doesn't change anything..
Bargain Basement Napoleon Dynamite
Idea: Awkward boy meets awkward girl for awkward romance. Everybody speaks in a dead monotone and acts like they're looped on ludes! "Hey isn't that basically Napoleon Dynamite?" "Okay, let's add New Zealand accents and totally suck out all the humor." "Now you're talking!" That had to be the discussion at the pitch table for this dreary excuse for a 'comedy'. As a huge fan of Flight of the Conchords, I was thrilled to see Jemaine Clement's name attached to this film and tuned in for that reason and that reason alone. Needless to say, I tuned back out after about a half hour...just before my brain started oozing out of my left ear. If this is (like Napoleon Dynamite) one of those love it or hate it movies...I hated it, and I usually fall on the love side of that equation, my sense of humor being skewed as it is. Still, it got a high enough rating that SOMEBODY must like it. Give it a try, but don't expect much.
A Sincere Effort & Promising Debut From Taika Waititi
Taika Waititi's directorial debut is a warm, fizzy & eccentric delight concerning two socially-awkward misfits and covers their wickedly amusing yet strangely alluring journey to finding love. Expertly blending elements of comedy, drama, tragedy & romance into an oddball yet heartfelt mix, Eagle vs Shark finds the then-new filmmaker trying to carve his own narrative voice and is a sincere effort by all means.
Also written by Waititi, the premise is simple, the stakes are small, the characters are quirky, and although the story comes pierced with themes of loss, longing, neglect & alienation, the witty approach & lighthearted treatment still makes it a fun & fascinating sit without diluting the emotions brewing beneath the surface. Waititi walks a fine line here and deftly balances the emotional beats with excellent comedic touches.
The idiosyncratic characters are sketched with heart & presented with compassion, plus the inadequacy in their persona only adds to their humanity. Jemaine Clement plays a bum geek with panache and is able to find tenderness in his selfish & petulant character. Loren Horsley is in as the shy, wistful girl with a crush on our dweeb loser and chips in with a sweet, silent & endearing performance that stands out with surprising ease.
Overall, Eagle vs Shark is somewhat rough around the edges & required more polishing but it nonetheless makes for a simple, funny & whimsical rom-com, thanks to Waititi's apt direction and brilliant inputs from its leading duo Finding humour in tragedy, making sure that dramatic & comedic bits remain in sync at all times, and commencing the debutant filmmaker's journey on a promising note, this small, light & satisfying indie is definitely worth a shot.
It's not cool. It's necessary.
"You sucka, you better watch out you fool. Yay fool. Hey fool. Sucka. You sucka. You foolish sucka. Better watch out. This is the piper, and I want to be pied...paid. Sucka." - Jarrod.
"I'm so complex!" - Jarrod
Taika Waititi directs "Eagle vs Shark". The plot? Jemaine Clement plays Jarrod, a bullied, belittled and battered video game geek who's preoccupied with proving his worth. As he suffers from feelings of inadequacy, Jarrod relies on a variety of bizarre coping mechanisms, some of which involve him holding video game contests so that he may destroy his opponents and boost his ego.
Into Jarrod's life steps Lily, played by Loren Horsle. Lily loves Jarrod unconditionally, sees in the guy something no one else does, but Jarrod's too blind to realise this. For much of the film he's oblivious to the doe-eyed girl attached to his side.
The film's a comedy, but will only appeal to fans of subtle, weird humour, where bizarre intonations, inflections and mannerisms are lovingly rolled out. "Eagle vs Shark's" style, in which amplified oddness meets low-key comedy, is strongly resemblant of Jared Hess' films, one of which also starred Clement ("Gentlemen Broncos"). Beyond this, actress Loren Horsley – acting primarily with her big eyes and come-hither looks – does good work. The rest of the cast are an assortment of oddballs, goofs and weirdos.
8.5/10 - "Napoleon Dynamite" meets Sigmund Freud. Worth two viewings.
Reminded me of "Mozart and the Whale"
Both are unconventional love stories where two offbeat misfits meet at a costume party. In "Mozart and the Whale" we are told that both characters have Asperger's syndrome (a mild form of autism), but it wouldn't be surprising to learn that one or both of the leads in this movie have had a similar diagnosis.
Both movies do a great job of showing realistic portrayals of people with less-than-perfect social skills without making fun of them. It's refreshing to see characters like these depicted not as stereotypes, but as real people worthy of being the center of the story.
Having seen several episodes of "Flight of the Conchords" I was almost surprised that "Eagle vs. Shark" wasn't written by Jemaine Clement, as it has a similar quirky and subtle comedic style. This was actually co-written by the director (Taika Waititi) and the actress who played Lily (Loren Horsley).
Too awkward to watch
The movie is physically difficult to watch, so awkward the characters are. That, of course, is supposed to be the point - a depiction of two complete basket cases finding happiness in each other's company, but i think the makers of the movie went a bit too far. For my liking, at least. While Lily, the female protagonist, is genuinely sweet, the Jarrod guy is a complete asshole (which came as a bit of a surprise, since i quite enjoyed Jemaine Clement's work with The Flight of Conchords, and expected to see more or less the same persona in the movie), and why we should like the idea of these two getting together is beyond my comprehension. The fact that Jarrod gets the girl, rather than gets his ass mightily kicked, is a gross injustice, so i refused to accept the ending as anything approaching sweet and romantic.
That said, there are some redeeming features - good supporting performances (in particular Jarrod's father - sorry, i don't know any of the actors by name), some visually striking scenes, such as video game tournament, and nice soundtrack. But the main storyline is crap. It's not a romance between two weirdos (which the reviews led me to believe), it's a romance between a weirdo and a jackass. In which the jackass gets all the perks.
Peculiar
New Zealand film that premiered at the Sundance Film Festival. Much of the writing process took place at Sundance's Director's and Screenwriter's Workshops. The story is sort of Napoleon Dynamite-like with the two main characters being completely socially inept. These are some seriously awkward dweebs. It's almost hard to watch yet it's a comedy. The characters remain real but one must wonder why this charming and actually almost cute girl would like such a loser. You'd think in the end he'd change and his true awesome self would show, right? But that's too Hollywood. This is an independent picture not following the typical formula and that leaves people wondering about the lead male character. It also helps the picture succeed in being quirky enough to make it a peculiar watch.
6.8 / 10 stars
--Zoooma, a Kat Pirate Screener
simplicity rules
no drama, no make up, no casino, no drug.. only a big fries stirred up the whole story.
it would really be a refreshment after those movies that are all about showing off the luxurious life style, or the craziness in people's mind. it's pretty advanced.
meanwhile, the reflection of the ideas or the subliminal thoughts in those ordinary people would make you giggle and say: human being's original instinct is like this.
my conclusion, the society identifies the word "loser", sometimes it accidentally includes the group of people that are nice and understanding with a beautiful mind.(just cause they're easy to bully & take control of with worldly standard....pathetic on the society)
key words: cool, the dangerous person, lily, horse, wow,
Great Script - No Direction
I loved this movie in spite of itself. Great script, great gags, good characters, but it was like it was directed by a wet sock. I love the Loser Genre and they really nailed that it is a character-based and pain-based genre but it had all the directorial panache of a youtube video web log. It was as though the camera was just set up and the director walked away leaving the actors w/o guidance. It walks a thin line of funny and sad but some things, especially the sound mixing, hew way too far towards sad. Partially giving away the game. Anyway, loved it because I love the writing, characters, story, actors, and genre, but penalty of 3 stars for the dismal directing. Edgar Wright could've made this material into Citizen Kane, as it is it is still much better than Napoleon Dynamite.
Yeah This Was Alright
This was an alright movie. Some moments I found very dull however. I did not like Jermaine Clement's character at all - and he was like half the movie. But I absolutely loved Loren Horsley in this. She was so sweet! I love her curly hair! I've never seen her in anything before. I also loved her brother, and the family, and pretty much all of the other cast. I laughed really loudly in one scene (I won't tell which... but I'm sure if you'd watch it you'd know) 6/10
Some good stuff with plenty of potential but quirky to the point of annoyance and at the expense of other aspects
Lily works in a fast food rest restaurant and the only thing she looks forward to is the lunchtime visit of Jarrod, who works across in an electronics store and represents all that she dreams of in a man. When he invites her colleague to an animal fancy dress party, Lily goes and impresses Jarrod with her skill on a fighting video game. Having slept together Lily goes with Jarrod to his home town to fight an old high-school bully, however an already awkward relationship becomes even more painful as the various desperate characters interact.
It was the presence of Clement that caught my eye here and also a couple of positive reviews from reliable sources about how "wonderfully quirky" this was. Watching it I'm afraid I cannot agree because I actually found it painfully quirky  and I speak as someone who enjoys Conchords, Napoleon Dynamite and many other sources of awkward comedy. So what was my problem here? Well the thing is that, although there are characters here, they are buried deep below so much quirkiness that it is almost possible to find a base or reality on which to build. Some viewers will not struggle with this I am sure but I found the film to be so desperate to be awkward and quirky that the characters were lost to me in the main.
It is a real shame because you can see much of interest in the wounded son of Jarrod, the insecure but growing Lily and the relationship that goes only so far but may go further. I wanted the film to do this first and foremost and build the quirks around it but it seems to have worked the other way. Towards the end I felt it did much better and it did get to the point where I cared a bit and I did find it slightly sweet and touching but really this was too little too late for me. Cohen is not without talent and the film does have a great little "indie" feel to it and I did like the animation mixed in but the script doesn't have enough in the way of reality or laughs to carry so many quirks. I was surprised by the latter actually as I was looking for it to amuse me but, aside from a few lines or looks, it mostly failed.
Horsley is "too much quirkiness" personified here and her development as a person is too late in the film to make a difference  for most of it she might as well carry a sign as to what she is trying to be. Clement is not much better to be honest as he also gets lost in his quirky character to a degree. He does have more to work with because so much of who he is playing is written on the other characters and this helps as he plays off them, but again it is only really towards the end where I cared for his character. Support is very much "quirky" and in this type of thing the support is where you can build your silly characters to comic effect  but Cohen doesn't do that, either having them be quirky but dull or loading them with dramatic back story.
Overall then the film is vaguely engaging but ultimately I found it too rammed full of quirks and awkwardness and not enough in the way of humour or character substance. The potential is there and it is certainly creative but to me it was "offbeat" to the point of painful  like the rebellious teenager who just forces "being difficult" for the sake of it. Fans of the genre may appreciate it as such but it did very little for me and was just a bit of a disappointment.
Quirky outsider's rom-com
This outsider's rom-com from New Zealand almost manages the lovable quirkiness of Punch-Drunk Love or Harold and Maude, though it doesn't have as much feeling and character development, and the statement it delivers isn't any stronger than the rather obvious "social misfits get together" one. But it doesn't reek of effort like contemporary American examples such as 500 Days of Summers do, and it feels genuinely heart-felt and sweet, mostly thanks to the two fantastic leads - Jemaine Clement of Flight of the Conchords is of course the only reason I even watched it in the first place, but Loren Horsley completely steals the show from him, making for a truly convincing misfit character that the viewer really roots for.
Unbelievably well done
This is simply one of the best comedies of the decade - really. What started (and now seems ridiculously normal) with Garden State and was followed by others up to Napolean Dynamite, and on to Apatow is taken to new heights.
It is rare to see a comedy where inventiveness is blended so brilliantly with a taste for the bizarre - and yet it is all downplayed to where the weirdness and real life actually touch.
The way the reality of the other world of Amiga, 80s time frozen, emotionally stuttering personalities invade the senses is like nothing we've seen is a long time - this is some of the better workshop development you'll ever seen - and very much worth watching on that basis alone.
We were blown away by the constant surprises, and performances, and most of all by the fact that every single scene has multi-faceted comedy in it - and a winsome complexity that has you catching your breath with a real sense of wonder.
From the opening scene to the final it is a wonderfully awkward embarrassing and mawkish take on life that deserves a wide audience.
Despite it's blend of nerd nostalgia and emotional freaks this certainly isn't just for a cult audience, or those who think this is only for those who like their comedy on the strange side - this will work for most. Just go with the flow and you'll have a slightly awkwardly and very delicious time.
We liked Lars and the Real Girl, which shares an emotional thread with this, a lot, but thought this a far superior offering - the writing, direction, and in particular, the thought that has gone into every scene from the set decoration to the smallest touches and gestures are terrific. It has hidden depths in the emotional uncovering that are never fully explained - yet you get it instantly - and we loved that it makes the viewer get it without being told how to.
If I am raving it's because it truly deserves it - the time-frozen New Zealand black hole of culture is just beautifully wrought - and overall, I would say this is going to have a real influence on a lot of future film-makers.
Terrific stuff - very.
Eagle vs Shark (2007)
Directed by Taiki Waititi. Starring Loren Horsley, Jermaine Clement, Brian Sergent, Joel Tobeck, Craig Hall, Rachel House, Cohen Holloway, Gentiane Lupi, Chelsie Preston Crayford, Adam Gardiner, Dave Fane. (R)
Self-consciously quirky story of shy, mousy Horsley pursuing a relationship with delusionally macho geek Clement; sparks don't exactly fly between these two social misfits, which seems to be the filmmakers' intent, making the oddball humor more endearing than the attempts at pathos and intimacy. Not so much a distinctive style as it is a hodgepodge of the offbeat--stick Jody Hill, "Napoleon Dynamite," Wes Anderson and Michel Gondry in a blender, give it a Kiwi accent, and presto! Not bad, but the leads are more caricature than character; Clement, though fitfully funny, is too grating and self-centered to earn sympathy; the supporting players rarely stand out from the eccentric texture. Horsely has an appealing presence, at least. Debut feature for writer/director Waititi; he also plays Clement's deceased brother in photos and home movies.
59/100
Beautifully shot, painfully endearing and wonderfully funny
Beautifully shot, painfully endearing and wonderfully funny. The film teeters on the edge of saccharin but (Thank heavens!) never falls on that side. The script is brought to life by Jermaine Clement (Jarrod) and Loren Horsley (Lily) whose expert comic timing and delivery make "Eagle vs. Shark" a film that I feel could not possibly fail to please. Horsley's performance as Lily is practically flawless; never, in my opinion, has there been a more likable character in the movies. Clement is hilarious, I wish there was a better way to put it but i literally laughed till I cried and his unbearable awkwardness provided the perfect counterpart to Lily's unbearable sweetness. The beautiful Wellington, New Zealand is the perfect back drop for this equally beautiful, however obscure, love story. I think this film is truly unique and heartwarming and entertained me from start to finish. When I had finished watching it, I was genuinely tempted press play and watch it again.
If you haven't seen it, watch it and if you have seen it, watch it again.
barely average indie.
Eagle vs. Shark appears to be vying for the Napoleon Dynamite audience. However, while there are superficial similarities, this production, from New Zealand writer/director Taika Waititi, is unlikely to achieve the same kind of embrace by geekdom that was lavished upon Jared Hess' feature. There are two primary reasons. In the first place, the semi-comedic tone of Eagle vs. Shark is more uneven than that of Napoleon Dynamite. The film offers some laughs but there are times when the dead zones between them are uncomfortable to endure. The bigger issue relates to the characters. Like the protagonist in Napoleon Dynamite, the main characters in Eagle vs. Shark are quirky and socially inept. Unfortunately, they are also morons, and it becomes increasingly difficult to care one way or another about characters who act like they have undergone frontal lobotomies.
love her hate him
Lily (Loren Horsley) is a loser cashier at the fast food Meaty Boy restaurant. She has a crush on weird Jarrod (Jemaine Clement) who works at the electronic store. She is a sad sack living with her brother and their cats while writing her songs. He usually avoids her but invites her to an animal costume party mostly to get another girl. She goes as a shark. It's a downbeat party with him as an eagle. They play a video game tournament where she beats everybody and face off against Jarrod. She lets him win and they have a fling. He reveals his need to kill his former bully.
I love Lily. I'm good with most of this except I hate Jarrod. I would love this far more if she dumps him at the climax and keeps him dumped. It's not like he improves that much by the end. I want better for Lily. She should gain her confidence and go off into the sunset for a life of performing. Taika Waititi's visual style is inventively quirky. It's not big laughs but there are plenty of weird. The obvious comparison is Napoleon Dynamite and I simply find Lily more appealing.
Okay movie but not very memorable
I saw this at the Waterfront Film Festival in Saugatuck, Michigan.
Not that bad of a film but I wish it had a better script. Lily is a sweet woman that works at a fast food place. She has a crush on Jarrod, a geek that works at the computer store across from her. She manages to get an invitation to his "Dress as your favorite animal" party and the two hook up. Jarrod convinces Lily to travel with him to his hometown so he can get revenge on the bully that picked on him in school.
The movie's funny at times, but I wish there was more of a storyline to it. There were a few nice little gags throughout the film, like all of the funny t-shirts everyone wore or the stop motion animation that appeared a couple of times. Though the set up was nice, it started to turn into the usual story of someone breaking off a relationship and then feeling bad about it and wanting to get back together. I wish more was focused on the history of Jarrod and the bully he wanted to beat up. I also would have liked it if Lily's brother appeared more in the film, he had some of the great comedic qualities that started to disappear from the film after he left.
It's an okay movie, but to be honest, I'm writing this review just days after I saw the film, and already I've forgotten some of it. Had it been written better it probably would have been a more memorable film.
Outrageous and very funny
If you're depressed or feeling blue, this is the movie for you! A story about two nerds falling in love leads to a series of crazy situations. Each one of the characters contains a surprise factor and some of them just are too much! The movie reminds me of "Cashback" in some points but without the stylish soundtrack. This could be considered a typical Sundance movie with a simple script and really good Art Direction ideas on the extreme kitsch side. Sometimes it's possible to feel Douglas Coupland whispering something about the unwanted adult life or Monthy Phiton screaming loud. In the end, a wonderful and creative piece of art!
A VERY SWEET FILM
Sweet,funny,emotional film,with wonderful photography. The directing has also an alternative look. Don't miss it...
Doesn't manifest the same kind of mocking and low-level humor of its obvious influence, yet doesn't make a great case for its characters either
NOTE: This film was recommended to me by YouTube user Soxsun for "Steve Pulaski Sees It."
Lily (Loren Horsley) is a shy, socially awkward fast food worker, who enjoys writing her music despite the ostensible fact that nobody cares enough to listen. She has a crush on a frequent customer named Jarrod (Jermain Clement), a geek who works in a video game store, and finally gets the opportunity to spend time with him when he invites her to a costume party with the only condition that Lily dress as her favorite animal; she shows up as a shark, while Jarrod goes as an eagle, claiming that, or a cobra, is his favorite animal.
What entails is a quirky romance only film could capture; a striking portrait of two social misfits, unaccepted by the masses, and free to guide themselves in the own strange, niche world they craft for themselves. The two don't wind up becoming friends as much as they do close, personal acquaintances given how little they explicitly let on to one another, particularly Jarrod, who lives so deeply in his own world he can't even adequately see what both him and Lily have in common - not even the mole they share above their upper lips. Jarrod has been plotting to take on a bully from high school in a fight in front of a large audience for the last several months, and Lily stands by his side, in utter compliance, largely because she's just so honored to be able to be seen beside the man of her dreams. As Jarrod slogs away at life, meticulously planning a meaningless brawl and taking nearly everything his family says as an offensive remark, Lily is there for him, be it a passive observer, or subtle moral support.
Therein lies the twinkling beauty of Eagle vs Shark; Lily's devotion and consistent loyalty to someone she probably knows, deep down, is four tires short of a car. Despite Jarrod's general initial indifference to her presence, he begins to see how Lily is the only person who has had his back since the beginning. Her incomparable trust and admiration for him almost effectively undermines the negative characteristics Jarrod embodies, including, but not limited to, sexism, close-mindedness, lack of empathy, and narcissism.
Taika Waititi's film embodies the similar kind of approach to outsider culture as Napoleon Dynamite did three years prior to Eagle vs Shark's release. The difference here is that rather than focusing on empty, intolerable characters we, the audience, were essentially laughing at rather than laughing with, Eagle vs Shark is more empathetic to its characters' situations and looks to profile them by examining why these two souls connect so well, or at least so nonchalantly, together. Waititi, who also serves as the film's writer, crafts a film bent on its own eccentric personality and sense of whimsy, and for the most part, succeeds on the charisma of both Horsley and Clement, who embody one of the more unique on-screen chemistries I have yet to see from independent films.
Is Eagle vs Shark consistently funny? Unfortunately no, and there are some long segments where the film drags and meanders, despite only being eighty-seven minutes (even the film's conclusion sometimes feels like it's frustratingly plodding to nowhere fast. Is the film occasionally grating because the personalities of the characters aren't wholly likable? Absolutely. These two nudging features make this film hard to truly love or embrace, but given Waititi's decision to make this a shorter film, one predicated, again, on the warmth of its settings and the quirks of its characters, the film winds up becoming a more tolerable character study than a frustrating examination of misfits. Misfits that, ultimately, you'd rather simply walk past on the street rather than linger on with a camera for an upwards of ninety minutes.
Starring: Loren Horsley and Jermaine Clement. Directed by: Taika Waititi.
Like nails scratching a blackboard!
I seriously thought it was going to be an ok movie for me to watch, well it was a disaster. I find that the two characters were more confused and all over the place especially the guys role. Whoever wrote this film, should be ashamed of themselves! The guys role was like a dwerp who just wants to make people's lives a living hell and the girl is like dreamy but confused. The writers honestly should've redone both characters personality and make them more get to the point that one of them I'd genuinely in love with one another!
Horrible movie, AVOID!!!!
Socially Awkward
Eagle vs Shark is the tale of two socially awkward misfits and the strange ways they try to find love; through revenge on high-school bullies, burgers, and video games.
The critical consensus on Rotten Tomatoes was that while there were "frequent moments of wit and mordant humor, Eagle vs Shark needs more to distinguish itself from other precious, Napoleon Dynamite-ish comedies' moments." That is probably about right. I loved the awkwardness of both characters, I loved the idea of an animal party. I've given this a good rating mostly for its quirkiness, but I do have to concede that Taika Waititi had still not quite found his groove. If not for that "Conchord" star power, this might have gone completely unnoticed.
like Napoleon Dynamite, only funny
Since some people are comparing this movie unfavorably with Napoleon Dynamite, I thought I'd post a review from the point of view of someone who thought Napoleon Dynamite was seriously overrated.
The two films get compared because both are comedies about the travails of dim-witted people bumbling along.
There are a couple of differences between the two films. For one, Eagle vs. Shark was much funnier; there is nothing in Napoleon Dynamite as funny as the scene in which Lily proves her worth at video games.
The other notable difference is there is some worth to the final character. Napoleon was a charmless moron. Lily seems similar at first, a plain sad sack girl with an inexplicable crush on somewhat as pathetic as herself yet oblivious to her. But as the movie goes on, Lily proves increasingly likable, and proves to even have a certain emotional resilience.
Her crush, Jarrod, played well by one of the Flight of the Concords guys, is pretty much a creep, but the movie does make some attempt to show what's underneath. I wouldn't quite say the characters are three dimensional, but they are less two dimensional than those in Napoleon Dynamite. Say Eagle vs. Shark's characters are (to use a video game term) 2.5D.
And while Jarrod is a rather pathetic and unsympathetic character, at least he's not the central focus, which makes Eagle vs. Shark much easier to take than Napoleon Dynamite.
By the end the movie even manages to be rather touching, in spite of the bumbling idiocy of the leads. Funny, charming and with an emotional center lacking in Napoleon Dynamite, this is easily the better film.
So if you were underwhelmed by Napoleon Dynamite, don't avoid this movie because people keep comparing the two.
Not Napoleon Dynamite - Not even close
Just because a movie is quirky (if that is the word) does not earn it the right to be compared to Napoleon Dynamite. The latter is wonderfully bent but Eagle vs. Shark is horribly a mess. Sorry. I'm not saying the filmmakers tried to make a movie like Napoleon Dynamite and failed, they failed to make a good movie and others try to rescue it by comparing it to the the genius of ND.
I tried and tried to "get into" the movie but again and again, it made me just turn my head and gag. What a waste of some excellent talent in the actors. None of them are bad but the story and directing of E vs. S was dismal. This was not a good story gone bad it started out as a bad story that could never go good.
Save yourself some time and stay away.
Very Napoleon Dynamite Feel
I saw this movie at Sundance 2007. I really enjoyed watching this show, I caught about 5 movies in 4 days and this was the best out of all of them.
This movie was entertaining, I was never bored. It reminded me of Napoleon Dynamite however different enough to not be a rip off. All the characters were great! They added exactly what was needed in this movie to make it fun to watch.
Favorite Quote "Some people don't have sleeping bags"
Anyway this is really worth a watch and look forward to having a copy at home to watch over and over.
Not bad, but not as good as "Napolean Dynamite"
I have not read a single print review that has failed to mention "Eagle Vs Shark" without comparing it to the work of genius that was "Napolean Dynamite". It is kind of unfair, but expected, because both films deal with uber nerds, holding massively misguided high opinions of themselves, and possessing little, if no social skills.
"Eagle Vs Shark" is not bad, but it definitely is not as good as "Napoleon Dynamite". It is not as funny and doesn't have as many good jokes. It is slower, not as well paced and does not have as interesting a selection of supporting eccentrics and geeks. But... It is funny in parts and definitely has it's moments.
My favourite bits? Jarrod's constant taunting phone calls to his nemesis. The "Fool! Sucker! Foolish sucker!" and "Tell him... Justice is coming" bits are particularly funny. Duncan ("The greatest Hacker that I know"), his aberrant computer and cunning sources of information. Jarrod's party and the Fightman contest. Jarrod's training regime. Jarrod's final confrontation with the school bully who "Ruined my life!"
I enjoyed it for what it was. "Eagle Vs Shark" could have been an awful lot worse. I don't know how much of a recommendation that is, though, if you can only afford to see one film.
Eagle V Shark - Disappointing
As has been stated before this is in effect the story of the relationship between a man and a woman in country New Zealand. It would be kind to describe them as social misfits. However, in reality, they appear to be people, who whilst ostensibly kind, who have very low I.Q's. Their ignorance of life then presents situations and issues. These situations are sometimes dramatic, never comedic, but always pitiful. This is not just the situation with the main characters, but all the supporting roles have the same faults. The creators of this movie are New Zealanders. I do not know if the underlying theme of this movie is a asocial commentary on rural New Zealand. In making that comment it is in no way meant to be offensive to New Zealanders. It is just that any intended statement in the film in that regard is lost on outsiders. I also gain the impression that the film lost its way and did not know what it wanted to be; drama, comedy etc...Unfortunately the film is to depressing and pitiful to watch or enjoy.
Surprisingly good
First, great story - brilliant strip of characters to raw emotions, simplicity and beauty.
Second, surprisingly acting from Loren Horsley, virtually unknown to me. She manages to transmit such powerful emotions with just her bright and peacefull eyes.
And third, great directing, and great musical arrangements. This movie reveals gradually characters and raw human emotions at a brilliant pace, and you will find loving not only each of the characters but the whole frame in the end.
Worht mentioning the animated sequences, used with caution and revealing delightful metaphors.
Completely unexpected
Every time I thought I had this movie figured out, it threw me a curve.
A great study on outsider life experience -- honestly told, with no apologies. And laugh out loud funny.
If you've ever known an obsessive video gamer, someone who had to work at a fast food place, someone who invested their money in a product they invented and couldn't get rid of it, then you already know these characters. If you've ever had trouble fitting in -- you'll know just how Jarrod and Lily feel. But you still won't be able to predict their actions.
The short animation interludes interspersed throughout the movie are an unexpected bonus: never have apples been so appealing and entertaining.
This movie is a don't miss -- find somewhere near you it's playing, or catch it on NetFlix in a few months.
Note: Eagle vs. Shark is somewhat reminiscent in tone to Shirley Barrett's Love Serenade.
Deadpan style makes "Eagle vs Shark" an awkward affair
"Eagle vs Shark" is an awkward romantic comedy. In fact it's probably 80 percent awkward, 10 percent romantic and 10 percent comedy. New Zealand creator Taika Waititi shows us the deadpan humor side of love, a style reminiscent of HBO New Zealander comedy series "Flight of the Conchords," (which stars Jemaine Clement, the lead male in "Eagle") only this is less funny. It's cute and good for a few chuckles, but not funny enough to truly endear us to its main characters, Jarrod and Lily.
The film begins on the boy-meets-girl premise, with Lily (Loren Horsley) scoping out a particularly unattractive Jarrod at her place of work, a fast food restaurant. After she's fired for seemingly no good reason, she goes to Jarrod's "dress as your favorite animal" party where she lets him beat her in a video game tournament. The two hook up despite Jarrod's awkward advances and their romance quickly takes them to the town where Jarrod grew up, where he has plans to fight his childhood bully -- and ultimately some inner demons.
The shift from focusing on Lily to being about Jarrod coming to terms with some family and self-confidence issues is slightly unexpected. The title gives the impression the two will be at odds and that this will be the main source of conflict, but it ends up being about how Lily, seeking desperately to be swept away by love, hits an obstacle because the apple of her eye is an immature Napoleon Dynamite rip-off. Ultimately, love is never simple or easy, but it works out if it's meant to.
Clement, had Napoleon Dynamite never existed, would have come off as quite hilarious in this movie. However, the nunchuks thing has indeed been done, so Jarrod's social inadequacy seems more stale than funny or worthy of sympathy. We do feel bad the way his father ignores him, but he doesn't do anything to really capture our hearts. Neither does Lily, but she comes close. Horsley's pretty green eyes aren't quite enough to hide her underdeveloped loneliness. She's more pitiable than Jarrod, but the deadpan style of the film undercuts our understanding of their emotions.
Deadpan works for comedy, but Waititi carries it over into the drama too much, sucking the potential for conflict right out of it. When that happens, the director shoulders more responsibility to convey emotions through images. Waititi's script has a few really nice moments, but much of the symbolism meant to do the job of making us feel is too abstract and forced. The eagle symbolism is over-pushed and the animated apple scenes even more so. It captures the independent spirit of the film, but it's not cleverly worked into the script to make us feel as if it belongs.
"Eagle vs Shark" is nice, but it's a bit too bland to really get a reaction from its audience. Even though the blandness is meant for humor, a film that clearly has a big heart shouldn't let that style cheat it out of becoming meaningful.
Underdeveloped
Taika Cohen's lo-fi love/hate story resembles Napoleon Dynamite not just in terms of its bad 80s sportswear, unmanageable hair, and blank-faced brand of humour, but also in its recognition of the fact that the central nerd is not a well-meaning loser, but actually bit of a git. Borderline sociopath and self-proclaimed depressive in Jarrod's (Jemaine Clement) case. While this provides the seed for a more soulful film than Jared Hess's minor classic, it also lacks that film's joke quotient. For a quirky sub-90-minuter with minute pretensions, played alongside an animated love story played out by half-eaten fruit, Jarrod is simply too bleak a character. Meanwhile, Lily (Loren Horsley) is too sketchy to win our sympathy; too empty to provide the narrative with anything but a bucket for Jarrod's often wittily written bile. By the time the repetition starts kicking in at about the hour mark, you'll be wishing she'd just walk home.
It was an awesome way to end the Festival!
I thought this film was great! It was one of my favorites of the 2007 Sundance Film Festival.
Yes Jarrod was a jerk. But he had created the alternate personality to hide the person he had been before he left home. We all have masks we hide behind at times and act like jerks when confronted. It didn't make him a bad person. Just misguided and controlled by the person he wished he had been.
Lily is a great heroine! She is humble and full of joy and love. She brings a light to Jarrod's family that is much needed. She doesn't really take his crap for very long. She saw his potential and in an unbitchy and loving way she shows him what an ass he is/has been.
I thought it was inspiring and refreshing!
Great offbeat film
Sundance Film Festival Grand Prize nominated film Eagle Vs Shark is a romantic comedy with a twist from New Zealand director Taika Cohen. The film tells the story of two socially awkward misfits; Jarrod(Jemaine Clement), a depressed video game store clerk and Lily(Loren Horsley), a quiet fast food waitress as they fall in love and go to Jarrod's home town where he is planning to get revenge on a high school bully. It is hard not to compare Eagle Vs Shark to US indie hit Napoleon Dynamite as both films' main characters have some similar mannerisms and much of the humour is created from that, however this film has a lot more going for it than the indie success story from Idaho. The character of Jarrod is very well acted and generates a lot of big laughs, but it is the excellent performance from Loren Horsley as Lily that truly makes the film. The audience really cares for her and she is what takes a good comedy film and makes it a great film regardless of genre. Eagle Vs Shark is a very funny, well acted and excellently written film and I would urge anybody to see it if they have the chance.
Sweet, funny and feel-good yet wonderfully understated.
Lily works at a fast-food restaurant...and is lonely. She has a crush on Jarrod, who works at a nearby store, but he hardly notices her. Then he invites a work colleague of hers to a party of his, and Lily goes in her place. Soon, a relationship blossoms.
Sweet, funny and feel-good yet wonderfully understated. The directorial debut of Taika Waititi, who went on to direct Boy, What We Do In The Shadows, Hunt For The Wilderpeople and Thor: Ragnarok. Contains the best elements of these movies - the warmth of Boy and Hunt For The Wilderpeople and the comedy of What We Do In The Shadows.Very sensitively told with some great humour along the way. Some lines are brilliant in their effectiveness ("Don't go to work, they think you're dead" had me in stitches).
This all told in so understated a fashion that it is quite self-deprecating.
Good work by Loren Horsley and Jemaine Clement (of Flight Of The Conchords fame) in the lead roles.
Great movie.
Dorkeo and Weirdiette
Overly quirky, uber-dorky love story revolves around two nerdy souls and their eventual courtship through a series of underdeveloped though often heartfelt scenes. Writer-director Taika Cohen shows a certain talent for creating enduring eccentricities on screen but fails to tie everything together into a cohesive whole. Many of Eagle vs Shark's brief scenes display a knack for the underlying subtlety present in such overtly bizarre characters, Cohen is simply too obsessed with the light-hearted weirdness of it all to make many of the scenarios stick with viewers.
Most resonance subsides afterwords simply because these two principal characters feel far too old to be acting as mentally immature as they do, in effect rendering much of this oddball character study indulgent and unrealistic. There are enough sincere bits and eccentric surprises thrown around to warrant a viewing by the indie-leaning younger crowd raised on Napolean Dynamite, but in the end Eagle vs Shark remained a glorified and overextended short, hardly transcending it's student film roots.
Very cute!
I saw this movie last night for the AFI Dallas Film Festival. I bought the ticket for this one on a whim and boy am I glad I did. I was expecting something quirky silly as the only New Zealand/Australian films I'm really familiar with are Muriel's Wedding and Strictly Ballroom. What I saw was a very cute film about two geeky people trying to find happiness and meaning in their life through love.
It's very easy to be sympathetic towards Lilly, not only is she funny as an awkward person, but she's actually very sweet and quite beautiful when she stands mesmerized by her love interest, Jarrod. And I swear I think I knew Jarrod in High School! I mean, seriously. He looks and acts very similar to someone I went to school with. So much so, that nearly every time he opened his mouth I had to giggle.
The movie had similarities to Napoleon Dynamite in that it starred the same type of awkward social outcasts. But I enjoyed this movie more than ND simply because it focused more on the hope and happiness of Lilly than on angst and anger of Jarrod (who is very similar to the attitude of ND).
Kiwi "Napoleon Dynamite" meets "Me & You & Everyone We Know"
EAGLE VS. SHARK (2007) **1/2 Jermaine Clement, Loren Horsley, David Fane, Craig Hill, Morag Hills, Cohen Holloway, Loren Horsley, Rachel House, Brian Sergent, Bernard Stewart, Joel Tobeck, Jackie van Beek. Frequently funny dippy rom-com from New Zealand about two square pegs (the geekily appealing Clement and Horsley) who find each other but apparently have not much in common, in spite of their differences, they make a unique couple. Think the Kiwi hybrid of NAPOLEON DYNAMITE meets ME & YOU & EVERYONE WE KNOW. Writer/ director Taika Cohen infuses genuine heartbreak with pathos and just the right amount of cringing humor to get the laughs out , and intersperses the film with quirky animation.
substance
I really liked this film, I went into thinking it was going to be an off beat comedy with no real substance. Surprisingly it was not only a comedy it actually had a plot and significant character ark. I think that is what really separates it from Napoleon Dynamite which also explores outsiders. In this film the characters grow and recognize things about themselves. The humor is still very much there and the actors do a great job with their characters. There is also some really cool cinematography and animation in the film that was an unexpected bonus. The scenery was really amazing it made me want to go to New Zealand! I would highly recommend this film. It was really entertaining for me and I really liked the accents!
Worth seeing at least once
Cute, quirky film. I thoroughly enjoyed this twisted and very unique "Romantic Comedy" . Occasionally I was reminded of Napoleon Dynamite, but that is not to say that the content and story was unoriginal. The opening scene was absolutely fantastic, and immediately you are thrilled to find out who this strange girl is, as well as who her crush is. I love that the writer/director made some very non-cliché choices for the characters, it made for some refreshingly shocking fun moments. His actor girlfriend is very talented, and in reality a beautiful girl. This unique film may not be the one you watch dozens of times over, or memorize every single line, but it is certainly one I will see again when it is released.
Not Exactly Fresh, but Quite Good
Eagle Vs. Shark is a quirky comedy from New Zealand, with "Flight Of The Conchords" Jermaine Clement, and a cast of unknowns.
It's a very funny film, with some good directing and a decent score. My only quip is it feels like it's been done before...(read more)e. The wall paper and tapestries remind instantly of that legendary Garden State scene, there's animation of the Michel Gondry arts and crafts vein, a little blonde girl who very much resembles a certain Little Miss Sunshine, a leading man doing his best Napolean Dynamite, and a leading lady playing a dotting, kind hearted, quite woman ala Miranda July in "Me and You etc". Yes there all here including a soundtrack of obligatory indie pop, I heard a Devandra Banheart cover of "Body Breaks".
That being said, the movie works. It's funny, painfully awkward, mean, and consistently goofy. Loren Horsley gives a terrific performance as "Lily" the films hero, who is at the beginning of the film for reasons never clearly expressed absolutely in love with clueless uber-loser Jarred. The two get together at an Animal Dress up party, and all's well until Lily discovers Jarred is planning to get revenge on a man who bullied him in high school (which seems to be his only really coherent thought). So its off to Jarred's home town, and uncertain revenge and love.
Jarred is ridiculously unlikable, and Lily has the loving patience of a saint, it's the sheer awkwardness of the performances which make any of this believable, the little ticks like the compulsive lying, the monotone speech, awkward stance, clothes, droll humor. The performers really drive home the story well which in the hands of others could have been God awful.
Though writer/director Taika Cohen has borrowed a lot of elements from other films working in similar fields, he does so naturally, with a poise, grace, and nerdiness, left out of a lot of the quirky, funny, hip, indie rom-coms. Nothing brilliant, but a solid comedy, that plays better to absurd than it does thoughtful, but I laughed all the way through, and would recommend to others, if it sounds like the thing for you. It's pluses easily beat out it's minuses.
I'm not really into actors, or following "the stars', but Loren Horsley's performance here was really kind of enchanting, and I would definitely be interested in seeing her again. "I am...Dangerous Person..."
Eagle vs. Awesome
I just saw Eagle vs. Shark twice. I went to see it once, and thought it was so awesome that I bought a ticket and went to the very next show. I already know this is going to be one of my favorite movies.
Plain and simple, this is a very awkward love story. It doesn't have a complicated plot, it doesn't have any complicated special effects, but what it does have in abundance is comedy. If you're a fan of Monty Python, The Young Ones, Kids in the Hall, The State, Andy Kaufman, Top Secret, Will Ferrel, 1970's SNL-- this is for you. It's that kind of humor. If you're a fan of films Epic Movie, Eurotrip, Dukes of Hazzard or more mainstream types of humor-- this is not for you.
The second time watching it, I laughed almost harder than the first time, because I kept finding even more details in the background to laugh at. I can already see myself quoting this film with my friends: "I'm too complex!" "She went to a lesbian party." And details like the crazy burger (where the bun is on the inside and the hamburger patties are on the outside) are just so priceless. I want to have an Eagle vs. Shark party and make crazy burgers with everyone, play fightman, and chuck shoes at my friend with a helmet.
But the main surprise of this film is also how emotional it is too. I was laughing out of my seat for the first half hour, then I was completely floored by how much I actually cared about these characters. In this love story-- you see these people who are absolutely perfect for each other (or perhaps absolutely wrong for each other), as they drift apart there's a true feeling of sadness for them. Most comedies of this wackier sort don't actually make me care about what was happening, and both times through I really felt for them.
But the best part is the ending. You might think this film is going to wuss out-- and it's actually unbelievable what happens. I won't ruin it for you, but if you were like me, and an hour into the film had predicted what was going to happen-- you are mistaken! This film ends with a bang and is just incredibly fulfilling. I'm smiling just thinking about it.
I cannot wait to see what their next film is, because it's the ultimate movie for my tastes. At the very least, I look forward to seeing this film over and over again at midnight screenings and on DVD.
"I was going to come as a shark but I realized an eagle was slightly better."
"Eagle Vs Shark" is the story of two people considered 'losers' by society and how they might...just might...be right for one another. On one hand you have Jerrod, a twelve-year old boy trapped in a man's body who enjoys making candles, plotting revenge on the school bully that ruined his life and playing the video game 'Fight Man'. On the other hand, you have the fragile Lilly who sings songs about tangerines, lets people walk all over her and dreams about how Jerrod (a regular customer at the fast food restaurant where she works) may one day love her.
Creating a quirky, whimsical movie featuring two geeks who are awkward and barely able to function in society is difficult to pull off but New Zealand film maker Taika Watiti manages it. What makes this movie different to many others which focus on similar characters is that "Eagle Vs Shark" never stoops to mocking its characters despite the opportunity to do so. The audience is invited to share in their hopes and defeats, rather than stand back and laugh at their offbeat behaviour. It is a romantic comedy about two characters who are ill-suited to the genre (Lilly wears her shark costume while lying in bed with Jerrod for example).
Whilst both leads are magnificent, Loren Horsley is the real find here. With her wide innocent eyes, crooked smile and shy demeanour, she creates a character which you can truly connect with. Jerrod may be a complete jerk and oblivious to everyone around him but you never doubt that Lilly truly loves him. She's the type of girl who fades into the background of any room and Horsley manages to convey her joy and heartbreak in a way that you really want her to have a happy ending. Jermaine Clement as Jerrod is a lot harder to warm to because of his actions (and inactions) throughout the movie but ultimately you come to share Lilly's faith that the two are right for one another.
It's hard to avoid the comparisons to "Napoleon Dynamite" when reviewing "Eagle VS Shark". The deadpan deliveries of the characters in both movies is similar and the tone is almost identical. It's safe to assume that if you hated "Napoleon Dynamite" then you're absolutely going to loathe "Eagle VS Shark". Everyone else should give this movie a chance. Like the characters it features, it's not perfect but, like love, it's an uplifting experience.
Awkward. Quirky. Wonderful.
Recommended.
You decide.
Eagle vs. Shark is not another "inspired-by" high school athletic epic but rather a romantic comedy as strange as you will find this year. Actually I had to go back to 1971 with John Cassavetes' Minnie and Moskowitz and Hal Ashby's Harold and Maude to find equivalently eccentric couples meeting the challenges of decidedly unromantic love. Lily (Loren Horsley) is the naïve victim of society's meanness (she loses a job at Meaty Burger, where most of us wouldn't even eat, much less work; Jerrod (Jemaine Clement) is a slacker clerk out of Napoleon Dynamite's class.
This New-Zealand funky romance is partly funded by a fellowship from Sundance, not a guarantee of quality but a sign there might be something more that the initial impression that director Taika Waititi is being condescending to these less than brilliant lovers. After a while, I lost my own condescension and warmed to the simplicity of Lily's love for the obtuse and dorky Jerrod, as well as Jerrod's struggle with his feelings for this lovable flake. I also found comfort as I placed the protagonists in the same lineup with eccentric characters out of the imaginations of Bill Forsythe and David Lynch.
For example, the socially-clumsy Jarrod asks the introverted Lily if she'd like to have sex; she immediately replies, "Yep." The fleeting act, in which it takes longer to affix the condom than to perform, is charmingly innocent and inept.
Most of the family members are either socially unprepared or physically handicapped, a metaphor for the difficulties of social integration for unsophisticated but good-hearted underachievers. The oddball spirit of the film is embodied in the animal-costume party, for which Jarrod hosts as an eagle and Lily arrives as a shark. Thus the title, the endearing characters, and the difficulty deciding if this is an understated farce about the fringes of society or an exaltation of diversity and simplicity. You decide.
Dangerous Person, Yup
Greetings again from the darkness. While comparisons to "Napoleon Dynamite" are inevitable, writer/director Taika Cohen/Waititi actually delivers much more depth than the cult classic from Idaho. The multiple story lines involve family relationships, one on ones, self-esteem and self-discovery. Of course it may also be one of the quirkiest films of all time.
Of the two leads, Jemaine Clement as Jarrod and Loren Horsley as Lily, Clement's role is much flashier, but Ms. Horsley steals every scene. She is such a delight and a curiosity on screen. Her crooked smile and expressive eyes are exquisitely charming and as a viewer, we immediately embrace her desire to be loved.
Most of Mr. Clement's role is gearing up for his big revenge fight against the high school bully. As with most things in his life, he doesn't handle the moment very well, but it does become his moment of awakening.
The family relationship issues are complex and handled very realistically as very little is actually said amongst the individuals. Body language speaks much louder than words. Don't miss the director in the flashbacks as Jerrod's "perfect" brother Gordon.
Mostly hilarious
My overall rating of "Flight of the Conchords"'s Season 1: 5/10
This episode is pretty great overall, although some of the jokes have felt a bit formulaic/old/unimaginative (band being cut short, Mel's "love story", Bret's beer problem being so immediate etc) and the first song absolutely sucked, but the episode really seems to have found its footing as it went on, and while I'd seen that "threesome debate" climax on YouTube when trying to figure out whether I'd like the show, it is excellent, as is the 2nd song, heavy with continuity of this episode.
A waste of Lucy Lawless, but not all bad
My overall rating of "Flight of the Conchords"'s Season 2: 5/10
I'm not sure if this episode went through a development hell of some kind and was rescripted and reedited several times, but in my mind if you sign up Lucy Lawless onto your show, you'd want her to play a character with at least a double digit number of lines. Or half a dozen, at least. What is even the point of her character? To hint at a deeper characterisation for the Prime Minister, a character who is episodic in two episodes and doesn't appear again?... She works in essentially the same job as Murray - why not have her be his love interest, as he moves on from his wife? Would've made a lot more sense. Frankly, she was there so little that I only realised it was Lucy Lawless in the last scene, and then the absurdity of that guest appearance really hit me. She deserves better.
But the "Fashion" song there was pretty cool, and some of the jokes were funny, even if far from all, so it's not all disappointing - just mostly.
Season 2: Some weak episodes near the end but still consistently amusing and clever
The continued adventures of two wide-eyed New Zealanders living in New York plying their trade as musicians under the direction of band manager and employee of the New Zealand consulate Murray. The old problems of small gigs and lack of success remain, along with the same difficulties in regards matters of the heart, but Jemaine and Brett also have issues surrounding their image, politics, "beef" with rappers and earning cash on the cold city streets.
It has been a while since season 1 of Conchords came around and won over a lot of viewers by way of its very slight gentle humour, buoyed up by the invention and wit shown in the writing. Like many people I came to season 2 quite looking forward to it but I did keep in my head the knowledge that the show is not 30 Rock (which I had just watched two seasons of ahead of starting Conchords). I say this because I have picked up that many people who are disappointed with season 2 seem to discuss it while gushing about how hilarious and perfect season 1 was. While this is a matter of opinion, I cannot help feel that the fresh success of Conchords has perhaps affected people's memory so that it is remembered as being something different than it actually was – perhaps something where belly-laughs were coming every other minute and the whole thing was a hoot. Although this happens, it is not the vibe of the show and the fact that season 2 doesn't deliver that is not a "failing" so much as "business as usual".
This is not to say that season 2 is as good as season 1 was – because it isn't, although it is close. Most of the episodes are cleverly done with a general sense of awkward amusement that drew me into the show in the first place. As before the comedy is done so that we do not mock the characters in a cruel way but rather enjoy them for their ways and naivety. The songs do not have the highs of season 1 but they are more consistent, with only one or two weaker ones. I think this comes from them being written into the show whereas in S1 it occasionally felt like an existing song had been forced into the show whether it worked or not. The season does have one or two weaker episodes as well but generally the standard is high, with the same qualities as season 1. Of course this means that those who don't get the light comedy will continue to wonder what all the fuss is about.
The cast continue to be great because everyone "gets" the style of comedy. Clemt and McKenzie are great again, both in regards songs and other material. Good to see Darby get more use this time because his "supporting" character is very funny, as is his delivery. Similarly Schall, Barker and Costabile remain a delight on the sidelines. The guest stars are not massive and don't feel like a cry for attention even if Garfunkel and Rajskub do work well in their episode.
Some have laid into season 2 for being disappointing but generally it is good – it is only the final three or so episodes that really tail off. These are weak episodes with weaker songs but mostly it is a continuation of the charmingly light comedy of season 1 with the same wit and invention in the writing. It rarely has me rolling on the floor laughing but it nails the consistent amusement and sense of joy that keeps me coming back for more. I'm not sure if there will be a season 3 or not but, if there is, hopefully the new setting of New Zealand will bring with it a fresh feel and improved material.
The Conchords still Rock the Party.
SEASON TWO OVERVIEW
Can the frazzled lightning of FLIGHT OF THE CONCHORDS ever be re-captured in that bottle? In their second HBO season, Bret McKenzie and Jemaine Clement, the eclectic musical parody duo Flight of The Conchords, return with a passion. And a lightning bottle.
Second Season takes one full episode to take flight, starting out a little self-conscious. For the Conchords duo have fallen into that age-old trap of having portrayed out-of-luck guys when they really were - who achieved massive real life success - then had to go back to playing out-of-luck guys again. Knowing that they are not.
FLIGHT OF THE CONCHORDS now have the same good problem that Tenacious D had as a parody act. When The D called themselves "The Greatest Band in the World" at a gig with four people in the audience, it was the greatest gag in the world, but when they reach the Brixton Academy, London, and an amphitheatre of people is agreeing with them, the joke becomes too ironic to deconstruct. So too, when Jemaine and Bret entreat, "Who wants to rock the party?" the correct response should be dead silence. In the episodes, we still see that, but we know that on the live stage, the response would be deafening screams. That ain't right.
No matter how many women DON'T wanna be with you on your TV show, every woman watching your TV show DOES. All this informs our enjoyment of Season Two.
Season Two opens (Ep 1, A Good Opportunity) by taking us out of our Conchords Comfort Zone by making incompetent manager Murray (Rhys Darby) a success. The gold records from his managed band, the Crazy Dogggs, have catapulted him into a high-vaulted office overlooking New York, with our favorite out-of-luck folk band firing him as manager. The dynamic we were accustomed to is lost in this first episode. Betwayed!
Thankfully, CONCHORDS achieves success by the end of Episode 1 - by removing the Conchords' success! Don't fix what ain't broke. Sure enough, Jemaine, Bret and Murray are soon back in Murray's crappy little New Zealand consulate office. Yay!
Thus doth thunder god Thor raise mighty Mjolnir and stoke the lightning. Prepare thy mythic bottle for imminent capture.
By Ep 2, The New Cup, CONCHORDS attains the level of casual absurdity and hilarious incongruity that defined Season One.
As eclectic as they were in Season One, incredibly, The Flight of The Conchords extends their musical range in Season Two - to classical opera (Murray sings the first song of the season in full-throated tenor), Meat Loaf-styled cheesy rock opera (Ep 6, Love is the Weapon of Choice), New Romantic techno (Ep 8, Newzealandtown), and even karaoke in Chinese! (Ep 7, Prime Minister.) Standout tracks: Too Many Dicks (Ep 5, Unnatural Love), Sugar Lumps (Ep 2, The New Cup), We're Both In Love With A Sexy Lady and Epileptic Dogs (Ep 6). And all the surrounding characters get a stab at lead vocals, including their imbecilic pawn shop friend (Arj Barker) to their obsessed fan (Kristen Schaal).
Jemaine and Bret really get their kicks into the guts of Aussies at every hilarious opportunity, the Aussie accent being, "an evil version of our accents"; the Aussie one-night-stand a shallow heartbreaker; the Aussie embassy a bunch of bullying arseholes. But that's okay. New Zealanders only get so competitive because they know we Aussies are superior (!).
Cameos include: Lucy Lawless (looking very robustly MILF indeed), Art Garfunkel (still with that shock of orange hair that hasn't changed since the 60s, a great sport indeed when he has to contend with Jemaine wearing that exact shock of orange as a wig to impersonate him), unfunny Patton Oswalt (actually funny as an Elton impersonator: "I'm not gay, but I am when I'm in character"), Greg Proops (as a talent scout for feminine toothpaste), Jim Gaffigan (as a tiresome BFF).
Before we know it, SEASON TWO is over - there are only ten episodes. Season One was constructed around songs which The Conchords had performed for years. Season Two scaled the heights of Season One with all-new songs, a Herculean effort. Then they themselves expressed doubts about a third season, because I don't think the marketers who are harassing them for the product realize how much incredible creativity goes into a CONCHORDS episode: yet more all-new songs, in intriguing arrangements and styles, constructed around all-new adventures.
And how long can they sustain the underdog gag while being mobbed at their live shows? How long can Gilligan remain on the island? How long can Tony Soprano remain in therapy? How long can the war continue in M.A.S.H.? How much can FLIGHT OF THE CONCHORDS still rock the party? A lot. But don't tell anyone. That would be the entirely inappropriate response.
Perfect! Take note Hollywood
Beautiful, funny at times, never maudlin, coming of age for the children and adults in the film. Shot in a small town that is genuinely the town that the author/actor (father) actually grew up in. He spoke after our screening, and it was a 30 kid school house, which it still is. Actually the film is a huge success in NZ and the little community gets a small percentage of the gross, so the community is benefiting from this film.
The film captures a time and place in history and culture. It is slow and yet the story develops and covers a lot of ground. What I especially loved is that the camera doesn't jump around like Hollywood movies, changing every 5 seconds. It stays with the character.
Put on your list!
Another insight into Waititi's iconic world, but a little too familiar
Taika Waititi, director of the kooky oddity that is Eagle vs. Shark, continues to do what he does best in his second feature Boy. The coming of age story, based around two young brothers, succeeds in maintaining the brand of deadpan humour and parochial quirkiness that made his previous film so memorable. Boy is full of the rustic allure of Eagle vs. Shark and fans of Waititi will surely not be disappointed here. However, the director's first film was picked up on for being a little too similar to the cult hit Napoleon Dynamite, and his second feature is certainly not treading any new ground.
The story is set in 1984 and revolves around a loud and proud eleven year old (James Rolleston) a kiwi country-dweller whose dolt father Alamein (Waititi) returns after a long time away. The father brings Boy and his brother (Te Aho Aho Eketone-Whitu) all manner of stolen gifts and tall tales from the wider world, (particularly regarding the newly released E.T), but in time Boy comes to realise that his father might not be the all action hero his vivid imagination has led him to believe. Rolleston is outstanding in the role, and couldn't be more fitted to Waititi's iconic vision. He succeeds in being at once an adorable scamp and a mature, considerate actor as he comes to slowly understand the true value of family.
Waititi seems, however, to have simply lifted the character of Jarrod straight from Eagle vs. Shark and just renamed him Alamein in Boy. Both characters live in alarmingly similar fantasy worlds, both have illusions of grandeur, and both are unable to care for their young children because of their sheer juvenility. While this similarity does not render the film inert, one does expect more from a director with such potential and opportunity than effortless echoes of characters past.
Certain differences are apparent, however; Boy being warmer, friendlier and more genuine if a little less amusing. There is a positively glowing moment when the younger brother Rocky, misconstruing the tales of E.T, skates serenely across his garage towards his father, and calmly places a hand on his forehead. It is not clear what exactly Rocky is using his powers to heal in his father – the cuts and bruises left from a fight with a rival gang, his heartache for his lost lover or the essential sickness with which the character is riddled, but the severity with which he conducts this ludicrous task remains heart-warming.
The film was set around none other than Waititi's old house, using genuine props from his childhood, and although his father was not an escaped convict, it is obvious that there is a lot of truth at the core of the film. All in all, Boy is a charming escapade into 80's nostalgia, coloured with the telltale sedated humour of the New Zealand's new wave of cinema. Despite not breaking the mould, Waititi delivers an emotive, thoughtful and thoroughly engaging story about the fantasy of childhood colliding inelegantly with reality.
Boy review
this movie was one of the best movies i have seen for a long time. First it shows what rural NZ was like back in the day how they talked and how they acted overall great movie would recommend it to anyone. ;) Ezra Paton Auckland New Zealand Peace out OK I have not got enough lines so will say some random stuff Alamein car was great also just because he stole it and also that rocky has "super Powers" and thinks he killed his mum so sad :( poor rocky OK thanks for reading if you did OK bye from New Zealand for a second time goodbye and i will maybe post another on an other movie like Ted if i get around to watching it OK see you later
Waititi has yet to disappoint me
Order in which I've watched Waititi's work-WWDITS movie, WWDITS TV show, Jojo rabbit, Ragnarok, Hunt Wilder People, then this. I love his work bc he can discuss sadness then silliness in the same scene. I also love how his culture is embedded in much of his work. This movie really portrayed hero worship in a relatable way. How many didn't idolize their parents at one point? I also thoroughly enjoyed the Billie Jean and Thriller numbers. It's a different type of coming of age film, it's not too emotional or comedic; it strikes the proper balance.
What a wonderful film
There is something about this film that stands out from all the other coming-of-age stories. Its not just the superb writing and the impeccable character development, its the sincerity of it all. Beneath the hilarious bits of lighthearted banter and comedic aspects, there is a deep emotional level that is never ignored. The genuine moments of pain and sorrow aren't shown in an over-the-top way, in fact, some of these deep emotions are often hidden between the lines; they are more effective, more open hearted, and real.
It hurts my heart to know that some children around the world have to grow up earlier than they should, just to stay alive and somewhat healthy. It reminds me of where I am, what I have, and how wonderful my family is. I deal with my own personal demons and traumas that I must face, as do you all. This movie reminds me that every single person faces different hardships, which is why comparing each other's lives and trying to tell which life is harder to live is impossible. Its all perspective.
Awesome
Such a good movie, simple story, entertaining, funny and true to NZ. LOVED IT.
As a comedy completely terrible
None of the "characters" are likeable they are rude stupid and unrealistic i only laughed once it is however a decent drama but the script was weak and stupid they really bank on the awfull accent to sell the stupid jokes, is over the top silly and ridiculous dont waste your time watch hunt for the wilderpeople instead
The opposite of Jojo Rabbit.
Jojo Rabbit has a lot a of likeable characters. This one: one of the leads is boring, not very bright, treating others terribly. The other is a loser and an a-hole, with almost no redeeming qualities. Four stars for the good acting.
A Hidden Gem
A Taika Waititi New Zealand production that demonstrates the director's sharpness and quality, well before big Hollywood and Marvel came knocking.
The comedy follows Alamein, who is an 11-year-old boy living in Waihau Bay, New Zealand in 1984 and has visions of his father's greatest adventures close to his side. Believing that he was a hero, the youth learns the true story of his father, and must adapt to life with him around.
The film is tinged with sadness and nostalgia while also taking full affect of the comedy aspect. It has freedom and leverage to excel in its depiction of the impressive screenplay fuelled with quirky one-liners and memorable scenes for both the right and wrong reasons. We as the audience must adapt ourselves to the environment we find ourselves viewing; the rural, desolate landscape of New Zealand proving quite a surprise for the setting of an 80s tale, yet it works well with the idiosyncratic characters displayed.
Taika Waititi plays the careless, naive father who often shows the disregard and neglect to his children, even upon returning he still adopts an attitude to cause Alamein - who thought so highly of him - to resent his ways, and be reserved in his mannerisms. With many families, father-son relationships are difficult, as well as complicated, and as Waititi's character deteriorates, he brings down his family too.
A small movie amassing over $8.5 million, the production made nearly $900,000 in its first seven days and Boy then went on to become the highest-grossing New Zealand film to date on its own soil, surpassing The World's Fastest Indian which had held the position for five years.
Starring the extremely commendable James Rolleston and Te Aho Eketone-Whitu, the picture gained a splendid 7.5/10 on IMDB and 88% on Rotten Tomatoes - establishing it as worth the watch.
INTERESTING!
As in interestingly sad. This was the second movie about townspeople in New Zealand i've seen, both a depressing reality, fortunately the other one had a happy ending. The only thing remotely happy in this film was a group of bicyclist riding by in one scene, until the end. Refreshing!!! :)
Another great movie from New Zealand
I liked the fact that this movie credited the viewer with intelligence and left room for your own imagination. Whatever you do, do not miss the credits at the end Superb!
A feel good/charming film I could watch again and again
I really adore this movie. I find this comedy/drama genre to be very entertaining and I quite enjoy watching it. In fact, I can easily say that this movie finely represents the genre. It is a coming of age story about a young boy living in New Zealand in the 1980's, directed by Taika Waititi. The story mainly revolves around this boy, who goes by the name Boy, and his absent criminal father whose only reason of coming back to his family is finding the buried bag of money he left behind years ago. The movie also focuses on Boy's everyday life and his relationship with his friends and family in a very unique and witty way. My favourite thing about the film is its originality and humor that the characters deliver so naturally. But even though the film has its fair share of charming and light-hearted moments, on the other hand, as the movie continues we can't help but kind of feel heart-broken and empathetic for the character. What I love about Taika is his original sense of humor and his ability to blend both humor and heart in his films. That is one of the main reasons why I really cherish him as a filmmaker. I can honestly say I'm excited for his future projects.
Taika Waititi classic
Brilliant film from new Zealand and Director: Taika Waititi does it brilliantly
Far from perfect, but a decent dramedy
I don't really know what to say about this one - I watched it because I loved Hunt for the Wilderpeople and wanted to see what other films it's director had done. What I found was a more with a far more serious tone, but also a fairly intriguing plot. Don't get me wrong, this film is very flawed in some regards, but the sum of all its pieces is a decent Comedy/Drama that leans a little more on the latter than other films by this director.
I think I should start with the positives. First of all, like I said, the plot is very unique. For the sake of spoilers, I won't tell you that much about it, but it's one of the most interesting I've seen in a while. Then, there are the performances. All of the actors, even in minor roles, played their parts to near perfection. This especially counts towards the main character, Boy (played by James Jolleston), and his dad, played by the director himself, Taika Waititi. Best of all here, as with other films by this director, is the cinematography. There were some shots here that left my jaw dropped because of how beautiful they were. Also, as to be expected by Waititi, the dialog here is really snappy and well written - each of the characters felt somewhat real in a sense.
Now, this isn't to say this movie is without flaws. I found that this film has tonal inconsistencies at moments, especially later in the film. Something sad will happen, then will be proceeded with joyful, happy music and a scene that doesn't carry the same dramatic weight as the previous one. Also, the ending. Again, I won't be spoiling anything here, but this has one of the most lackluster, confusing, and downright unfitting endings I've ever seen in a film. Another thing that might get on some people's nerves, although didn't bother me, is that this film isn't as funny as the director's other works. It's a very dramatic piece, so go into it with that mindset.
All in all, Boy is a decent dramedy. If you like happy movies and cheery endings, this obviously isn't for you - or, you won't like it a whole lot. It's a short film, but in it's running time, it impresses with a unique plot, great performances, excellent cinematography, and witty dialog that brings characters to life. I'm not going to say it's the best film I've ever seen, or my favorite of all the director's work so far, but I enjoyed it nonetheless. One last thing: if you're somewhat afraid about the 'Not Rated' status this film has... yeah, there's definitely some cursing, sexual references, and a bit of violence in this one. It's not too extreme, but I thought I should point that out for some people.
Awesome or Pretentious? I Say Both.
Boy (2010) Director: Taika Waititi 6/10
Young actors impress, Tribute to the Maori, Picturesque backgrounds, Funny, zany, yet grave points. Thrilling credits a best part?
Charming and quirky? Also pretentious. Lacking mood balance, Waititi best not acting, Gave film dubious feeling.
Somonka is a form of poetry that is essentially two tanka poems (the 5-7-5-7-7 syllable format), the second stanza a response to the first. Traditionally, each is a love letter and it requires two authors, but sometimes a poet takes on two personas. My somonka will be a love/hate letter to this film? #Somonka #PoemReview
A boy in a man's skin.
I gave this movie a 5 out of 10 because I found the movie to be more disturbing then beautiful, and I often look for beauty in the world. This movie is about a family that has no mother and a father who is a criminal. The small children take care of themselves. Within the story, there are elements of hope which push the story forward. One main magical moment was when the boy is on the bridge. What happens next is sad, but the end result is a miracle, which ties in with Christmas. So in essence this is a good movie to watch in December (I watched it in Dec. 2013) because of the miracle that happens to boy after he is on the bridge. What I did not like was the dysfunction of the family. It seemed the children were running the household, like in Lord of the Flies. The end was a virtual dystopia. It is pretty sad to think of what may become of the children in this family. Will they be able to break the chain of dysfunction or will it continue, and will they be victims of circumstance?
No it isn't
This is not a comedy. The subject matter is somewhat dark; what it's like t grow up with a father who prefers a life of crime to his own children.
Are we grading movies from New Zealand on a curve? Almost every internationally distributed movie from New Zealand is the greatest thing since sliced bread. Only it isn't. What I have noticed is that they tend to have a dark streak to them, a sense of menace. Isn't this supposed to be a pretty benevolent place, free health care, a generous social welfare system, etc. The filmmaker spoke at the showing I went to. He was saying that in the eighties, they had ads on New Zealand television telling people not to leave their keys in their cars. I guess they save the darkness for their movies. The events in this movie did not happen to the filmmaker, who said he gets on just fine with his father.
This is a professionally produced movie. The acting is very good which is surprising because apparently none of the children were professional actors. The filmmaker played the role of the father, and he was very good. The filmmaker did a good job of portraying neglected children and their broken father. But it tends to get monotonous. Similar things happen over and over. The plot is layers of monotony and darkness.
The film changes genres three times. You get the feeling that was more lazy than anything, just throwing anything in there. At first it seems like a comedy, like a lighter, less creepy Wes Anderson and you are delighted. Very shortly it gets dark and monotonous but with touches of comedy. In the end there is a dance scene over the credits.
I didn't walk out of this movie but I would possibly not see it again if I knew what it was like. The filmmaker is pretty funny if you get the chance to hear him speak. This movie did not hold the attention of the pre-school children that were there and they were very disruptive. Had they been able to pay attention to it the subject matter would have been too dark for them. Leave the pre-school kids at home. I'm guessing 8 or 10 is the youngest age for this movie.
Heartwarming and Humorous
As it is a film that I have wanted to watch for many months, I am frustrated that I did not watch the 2010 film, Boy, sooner. Written and directed by Taika Waititi, a New-Zealand filmmaker and actor who is most renowned for his work in Hunt for the Wilderpeople and Thor Ragnorok, Boy is a clear example of the talent Waititi possesses as a creative. As only Waititi's second feature film, it became one of the top-grossing films in New Zealand when released, receiving enthusiastic reviews. The film follows the life of a young boy living in rural New Zealand, humorously named 'Boy'; on the cusp of adolescence, he is struggling to care for his family as well as simultaneously coming to terms with the reality of his life. It is centered around fabricated stories Boy creates to make sense of the absence of his father, played by Taika Waititi, which slowly break down as the film progresses when Boy begins to realise the true nature of his father.
Boy is a raw coming of age tale, a hilarious and heartfelt story about idols and magic powers while also recognizing the strength and resilience of kids. This film is a great example of the 'happy-sad' cinematic style that Waititi has mastered so perfectly and has remained a key theme of the films that followed Boy. 'I want to explore the painful comedy of growing up and interpreting the world'- through this, Waititi describes the reason his films become impactful for so many people, owing to his ability to create a connection between the viewers and his characters through the unpleasant and comedic experience of growing up that we all share. So, whilst I may be slightly biased in my judgement due to my unarguable love for Taika Waititi, I strongly recommend this watch.
Low Key Friday Night Movie Choice
I watched this movie based on the trailer and really found the main actor to be super funny and thought what the hell, I have 87 mins of my life to give this a shot. I'm super glad I did because this movie is just full of quirky humor and while not a whole lot actually happens in this movie it was enjoyable nonetheless. It is a lighthearted film with more serious undertones and it really makes you appreciate certain things about your life
Misery made funny
If you like laughing at other's pain, then Boy will have you in stitches! Underage smoking, sextalking and drinking abound as a group of children, presumably abandoned by their parents in the care of their grandmother, are left to fend for themselves while granny goes on a roadtrip. While teachers swear at students, MJ-loving preteens have fist fights and brag about grabbing boobs and fingering their uncles' daughters (because every adult in the film is uncle, aunt or father), in between having a drag, picking pot, and sipping on some beer! The film tries to be heartfelt in the case of the absent mother and her youngest child, who sees everything in cartoons and finds it hard to communicate, but the childish, inappropriate and abusive father, played by the director, overshadows all the sorrow we should feel.
The post-credit Bollywood style dance scene sums up this film perfectly, it's a comical, fantastical take of a classic (story) imbued with outbursts of aggression and fear (the haka). If 'comedy' is like the old Italian or Shakespearean plays where parents kill their children or each other and the "fool" makes you laugh throughout the tragedy, then this film is up your alley! Worth a watch to see how poverty can still create hope, and despair can cause havoc, but it ain't no Carrey, Sandler nor Ragnarok type of funny!
One line
A sentimental picture of a boy's realisation that his father is a man rather than God-like figure. Every man will know this stage in their life and they will instantly be able to dealt to the character of boy.
Such a jewel of a movie
In all its simplicity and quirkiness this has become my favourite movie of all time. There are actually many layers to this film and it deals with a wide array of topics regarding the human condition in a humorous and playful manner. Heart wrenching scenes dealing with the loss of a parent, loneliness and rejection are masterfully interwoven with the beauty of imagination as seen through the eyes of the young protagonist. I always have been fascinated by Maori culture and it was endearing to see how young Maori's struggle to find meaning and happiness in their lives. This movie is well acted, incredibly well cast and beautifully put together in all aspects. If you have not seen this film yet, please go and watch it with your whole family. I assure you that you will all enjoy the experience!
Boy (2010) - 7.0
Boy (2010) - 7.0 Act 1 - 7.0 Act 2 - 6.8 Act 3 - 7.2 An 11 year old boy living in rural New Zealand in 1984 Boy sees his dad as a mythical legend but it really seems that he's a loser who has struggled since the death of his wife Really focuses on every aspect of this boys day to day life Dad comes back to get money he left behind and the boy thinks he came to see him and his brother Boy wants to impress his dad and starts to neglect the other smaller kids he is tasked with taking care of Boy finds his dads stash of money that he buried, pet goat chews up all the money Dad steals some pot plants for money as he doesn't know about the money Other gang finds out about the weed and beat up the dads gang Dad runs of the boys goat on accident Dads gang members turn on him and steal his car and weed Great scene with boy snapping on his dad Grandmother returns and boy looks like he can go back to being a kid and the father looks like he now realizes what is important in his life Good film, plays like a coming of age film Good music James Rolleston and Taika Waititi both give very good performances Boy just wants his father to be everything he dreamed of but his dad is a deadbeat Dad eventually realizes that he has to get his act together and hopefully be there for his sons
Waste of time
I was hoping to enjoy this film, but.....it's not very good. There is NO message in this film what so ever. We have a bunch of kids left on their OWN by their useless grandmother, and 'boy'I'm guessing is the oldest of the family prepares their meals. At some point Boy's dead beat father comes back, treats him like dirt, tries to find a stash of money he buried....... Where was this film going? The ending is by far the worst ending of a NZ film I've ever seen. REally, this was a waste of time. Avoid.
Riveting fun from begining to end
A good description of this movie would be a mix of Moonrise Kingdom and Borat (but not as edgy). Watiti shows his prowess as a director and writer through extremely effective cinematography and hilarious but subtle script. The acting and score for this film are almost perfect. And Watiti does a great job of bringing colors into the slums of New Zealand especially in Boy's dream sequences about his father this helps emphasize the child like mood. I believe there is sometiing in thus film for almost everyone and I highly recommend it.
Dammit, Taika, you made me cry!
And that's saying something, because films scarcely ever make me cry.
Brilliant story, told exceptionally well, with characters you will love and hate and feel so many things for all at once. It was captivating and heartbreaking and sidesplittingly funny.
I don't have any more words. Just watch it. Taika is a genius and all his work is spectacular.
Who's the good boy?
We all know who the real boy is. *insert Brahms The Boy emoji*
More Similar Than We Know
Recently, New Zealand native Waititi has made a splash with What We Do in the Shadows, his mockumentary about the private lives of vampires, and has even been tabbed by Marvel Studios to direct the next Thor blockbuster, but his earlier film Boy is what first got him noticed. His look at native life in rural New Zealand during the mid- eighties captures the fleeting innocence of childhood. Boy (Rolleston), a scrawny twelve-year-old with an affinity for Michael Jackson, is tasked with watching his younger brother Rocky and a slew of cousins while his grandmother is away, but things get wild when Boy's estranged, criminal father (Waititi) reappears. Waititi shows the lives of average natives in New Zealand, instead of the war paint wearing behemoths we have come to associate with the Mauri people here in America. In fact, Boy depicts native New Zealander life very similarly to what we see on reservations in America. It's very interesting to see Boy and his family and friends interact on a daily basis. They run free across the town, where everybody know everybody, without a care. But as the film continues, you see that all of them are only a few years away from joining their fathers in jail or activities that could send them to jail. Boy manages to remain an upbeat and energetic film, even while dealing with tough issues like broken families, drug use and death. Waititi's creative take on Boy and his father's rough relationship is both light and poignant, making the film an entertaining watch for anyone who is a fan of Waititi or Michael Jackson.
Enjoyed every moment!
This movie is so endearing. I love the quirky humor and style such as interjecting Boy's Michael Jackson idolization onto his father creating dream-like scenes of his dad doing classic Michael Jackson moves and also the other son's imaginative drawings. I think I'm a little in love with Taika Waititi.
disappointing
I realise that most have rated this movie more highly, but personally I found is unsatisfying, somewhat pretentious, and ultimately boring. There were flashes of humour, but I found the story insufficient to sustain a full-length movie, and the the tone of the movie variable. Perhaps it requires a particular view of rural 1980s New Zealand life - and a subculture of that - to appreciate this trifle of a film.
If only Michael was alive to see this
That movie was a beaut tribute to the king of pop. May he Shamone or should i say rest in love. His music will linger for many young generations to come.
Good Boy!
There's something inherently nice about Taika Waititi's vision of the world; even when he's dealing with superheroes and world-ending calamities as he did in "Thor: Ragnarok", he's more interested in friendship and hope than about villainy. In fact, Waititi's on-screen villainy always seems to have some jocular edge poking out somewhere. In this wonderful examination of boyhood, the villain, if there is one at all, ends up being simply a flawed, silly man, while the protagonist, Boy, earns our affection slowly and steadily as he discovers those flaws. This film is a classic coming-of-age film: a boy on the cusp of adolescence learns about love, dreams and disappointment, all while keeping his spirit intact. On the other hand, it's also a film about not coming-of-age, and how that can happen to some of us, without it being a tragedy. The tone is playful, the performances are great and the world that's created is absolutely believable, if perhaps just a little too nice. But then again, it's Waititi's world, so what should we expect?
Hidden Gem: An Oscar Winning Storyteller Proves the Power of Family is Strong
Before there was Thor: Ragnarok or Jojo Rabbit, Taika Waititi crafted this hidden gem. Virtually unknown outside New Zealand, it remains among that country's top grossing films ever. It was his second feature film and is remarkably polished. As writer, director and actor in Boy he has succeeded in showing us that the Power of Family is strong. This is the beautifully paced, episodic story of a ne'er do well Father's return home to his family. Despite his long absence, he remains a godlike figure to his children who are being raised by his mother. Their journey together is a delight to watch.
The story is set in 1980's rural New Zealand with a predominantly Maori cast. They eloquently show us that our humanity is universal. Animations bring childhood fantasies all of us have had vividly to life in crayon. Waititi began as a stand up comic, so he has an eye for absurdity. The title character's younger brother Rocky uses secret "superpowers" to control the world around him to hilarious effect. His 11 year old brother, Boy, imagines himself so rich he and his father have twin dolphins they ride for leisure. James Rolleston, who plays him, is natural and believable. At no time do you get the sense that anyone is "acting." The scenes where they re-enact famous Michael Jackson videos are a total hoot. Ever see a Maori Haka version of the Thriller group dance? Be sure to watch the end titles to catch them all.
There's a lot of heart in this story. By its end, we catch a glimmer of what Boy himself will become and how families can shape us for good or ill. There's quite a bit of foul language, drug/alcohol use and criminal behaviour in it, but there are a lot of important family values too. I highly recommend this film for anyone 13+.
Only Taika can do coming-of-age like this
Boy is Taika Waititi's version of a coming-of-age drama. By that I mean it has a number of the emotional beats that you might find in the story of a young boy learning to be a man, but it is peppered with humor from start to finish. I found this movie absolutely hilarious right from the first scene as Boy described his childhood and his undying love of Michael Jackson. I also loved that this perfectly set this film in a particular time period, the exact era I was growing up as well. I wasn't sure which way the story was going, but I don't particularly care when watching a movie that has me laughing out loud from the first minute. It turns out the film is an exploration of the relationship between a young boy and his estranged father. The father is played hilariously by Taika Waititi himself, and I found everything he did to be humorous (up to a point.) There's something about his line delivery that always strikes me as funny. Despite the goofiness of the characters, and the light-hearted mood of the film, Boy also has some powerful emotional moments. At times, the movie almost seems a bit too light and irreverent to handle the reality of what is happening to Boy. However, I think the tone of the film fits with the way the mind of the protagonist works. He is a fun-loving kid, and he wants to always believe the best of this man that he idolizes. Towards the end of the climax is the most powerful scene because it truly is the moment when Boy becomes a man. That's when I was most emotionally impacted by the film. Coming of age dramas aren't my favorite type of film, so it had an uphill battle to completely win me over. Yet there's some magic in this movie that made it a joy to watch. James Rolleston delivers a great performance as Boy, and makes this a thoroughly endearing film that I would like to rewatch sometime soon.
A must-see!
An enjoyable, thoroughly entertaining and absolutely credible story of rural life on the East Coast of New Zealand's North Island in 1984.
Many co-opted actual East Coast locals - conscripted by burgeoning director/writer and adult lead, Taika Waititi - emerge with so much honour as natural actors in the humorous tale of a boy's (James Rolleston) reunion with his madcap father (Waititi) on his release from prison. He has returned home to find a stash of cash he hid.....with his entire gang of two dim-witted pals to help. Laughs from beginning to end make this a must-see.
Entertaining.
This is an odd, slice-of-life film that is somehow comedic and depressing at the same time. The child actors are actually really good, and the overall events found here are engaging and well-told. Its really funny. My only complaint is that the ending is a bit anti-climatic. I would highly recommend watching this movie, though its probably not for everyone.
There's an end-credits scene in case anyone who hasn't seen it yet is wondering.
A special and unexpected delight
WE watched this movie tonight on Netflix and both liked it very much. We are old and live in Maine USA which is about as far away as you can get from the setting of this movie, but the themes are universal. Poverty, neglect, crime, stupidity, charm, delight, love, The main problem we had was in not always understanding the dialogue, but actually that didn't really matter and with a roku you can back space and catch up. Both the brother actors were wonderful. All the actors were very good. I could not understand what nationality the characters were. My husband said Polynesisan. But that 
Fantastic movie -great unlike most of USA garbage movie
I went to see this movie because I have taken a liking to New Zealand made movies for their good and meaningful story lines unlike what the the USA churns out.Once again I was not disappointed. What a hoot.Great entertaining and funny.May be a low budget made movie but a great outcome for director. Well done.Hey maybe the Americans should learn from this country how to make great meaningful movies that leave you with good thoughts. I would like to know how a small country makes such great movies. Are the directors and actors going to the right training school or is it that they have just approach things in a new fresh light and choose actors who are not from Hollywood with all their glitter but with natural core ability.9 out of 10
Brilliant movie. Great for everyone.
Brilliant movie. Great for everyone. Anyone from child to adult can love this movie. It's a very healthy story. Still probably good for kids to watch with their caretakers. It's a good movie to talk about. Every doctor is excellent. Every scene is believable. Every character is consistent. It's fun and has enough humor in it. I know I don't see you too much in my reviews because I don't like to know anything about a movie I'm going to see. It's a coming-of-age film. In particular about what we fantasize and what we find out. I also liked seeing New Zealand. It is so beautiful. And it makes me curious about the native people, how they were treated in the past, how are they treated now. Oh and the ending is perfect. Stay tuned after initial credit.
Time capsule
This film is a good time capsule to the life of a young boy in 1980s New Zealand. He feels like a real person and his interactions with all the other characters were comedic, though it becomes more poignant over time.
Beautiful Movie.
Taika Waititi, I came to know about this name from "What We Do in the Shadows". I really liked his film making style and fun in it. I was excited that he is the Director of Thor: Ragnarok. That is his grown in film making. I got the chance to watch his movie "Boy" in theater. The film starts with an innocent narration of the protagonist boy called as Boy. From this narration, you will be determined to watch the full movie. It was no innocent and funny. Whatever the nation is, you can get the glimpses of your childhood from Boy. Great visuals and wonderful treatment makes it a movie worth watch. James Rolleston was really lucky to get the lead role. He nailed it. In fact, he was cast as an extra. But, as the lead cast did not perform well, he won the part. Do not miss this movie. It's really good. #KiduMovie
"Don't be so weird, egg!"
Taika Waititi's breakout film from 2010 isn't as straight-up entertaining as this year's Hunt for the Wilderpeople; it's rougher and much more personal. And, IMHO, it's right up there with such classic boy's-eye-view accounts of life's turning points as My Life as a Dog, Léolo, My Life So Far and, of course, Boyhood. The script's a little patchy at times (maybe because the film was upsized from a short to feature length), but TW seems to be one of those people, like Fellini and Charles Schulz, who remember every moment of their childhood, and it all seems very real. The title character and sometime narrator (great job by last-minute recruit James Rolleston) idolizes his absentee, inmate dad as an unstoppable action hero; when Dad unexpectedly turns up to retrieve a bag of stolen cash from a long-ago botched robbery, the idol's feet of clay (and head full of pot smoke) are very much in evidence. TW avoids coming-of-age clichés—the distinctive locale, a coastal Maori reserve back in '84, certainly helps with that—and his quick, sardonic visual style really keeps things moving. He tips us off in two short scenes, for example, that Boy's already set foot on the same path as his childlike, braggadocious dad: Boy shows off his dorky "Thriller"- style dance moves, and later Dad shouts out "Dukes of Hazzard!" and slithers awkwardly through the driver-side window of his car, in front of the same audience of bemused little kids and disdainful mean girls Boy's 6-year-old brother, Ricky, provides his own mystical perspective, and there are lots of low-tech visual delights, notably Ricky's animated crayon drawings and the cast's lively haka à la Michael Jackson right before the closing credits.
A little masterpiece
This is about the 4th or 5th New Zealand film I've seen. They've all be exceptional but this one, for me, is the best of them. New Zealand's film makers have this wonderful knack of realism, humour, heart and brilliance that we don't see almost anywhere, anymore. This is a gem. No point telling what it's about. This is a 'watch to find out.' I will see this one more than once. A word: Don't stop watching until the very, very, very end! Just when you think it's over, there's a bit of more 'great' and then just when you think THAT'S over, right at the very end, there's a delicious touch!
Cute little comedy with a lot of heart.
I want to like Waititi's movies more. I like them a good bit, but I just can't help but find myself somewhat bored sometimes. This movie is pretty cute, funny, and sad. It's lighthearted apart from a couple scenes which end short of any real dramatic tension. And that's not a bad thing. The movie shouldn't be bogged down. It's supposed to be a cute comedy movie, not a tear-jerker. The performances are all great, especially considering it's mostly kids. Waititi himself is fun to watch, and possesses many of the elements that would make a fantastic father, and also many of the elements that make a terrible one. It's it hilarious? No, but it'll make you smile. Is it depressing? No, but it might just bring a tear to your eye. That's how I feel about this movie I guess. Definitely we'll-made and worth the watch if you're considering it.
Dad Comes Back
The story starts with grannie saying she is leaving for a funeral and she'll be back in a week. She leaves an 11 year old in charge of half a dozen younger children (a brother and cousins?). Auntie is the store owner, bus, driver, mail carrier and doesn't do anything expect hold up a "no" sign when "Boy" asks for a Popsicle.
The characters of Boy and his little brother, age 6, Rocky finally meet their dad. Mom died giving birth to younger brother and apparently, "dad" robbed a bank and was in jail. This was never explained thoroughly, but it's besides the point. Dad and his pathetic "gang" of 2 other adult men come to the house and proceed to act much like a boy himself. He is a grown man, but throws temper tantrums, steals weed, digs up a field looking for his stash of stolen money, etc. He's gotten a rockin' afro, bushy porn mustache and coveted logo jacket for his gang. He literally sets up a throne of pallets in the garage for locals boys to worship him. Although he promises his mother over the phone he will spend quality time with the boys, it just doesn't happen. In Maori culture, or any culture, you've got dead beat parents. In the end, it is really the father who is the Boy and the Boy who is the father.
My favorite part of this movie was during the end credits when the cast, adults and kids did an extremely bad performance of an American-Maori Dance/Story-Telling Mash-Up of Michael Jackson's Thriller choreography. Very original and funny.
Potential vs the World
"Boy" straddles the worlds of bitter and sweet so comfortably that I can't believe this was only Waititi's sophomore feature. I rarely review movies, but I just couldn't stand that a film of this caliber had so little love. I think the reason for this is that it has been marketed as something quintessentially New Zealander. Which is absolutely true. And completely irrelevant to how much you will enjoy this film. Some things are universal and as "Boy" teaches us, two of those things are Michael Jackson, and that world-shattering humiliation that seems to haunt our adolescence. Boy is a an unremarkable kid growing up in an even more unremarkable world. Having lost his mother during the birth of his younger brother, Rocky, he's looked after by his Nan and is often responsible for Rocky and his younger cousins. His absent father is a samurai warrior, champion boxer, and deep sea treasure hunter. When this god-among-men finally shows up (just after Boy's grandmother is called away) reality and fantasy collide. The funny moments are more hilarious than any out-and-out comedy I can remember and while "Boy" has moments of drama, they are all played with a subtle hand and carried out believably by the actors (who I'd never heard of before). It's a coming-of-age film and very male orientated. There are sequences so beautiful and fantastical, you only see them in these pieces crafted through a haze of loving nostalgia. Both Boy and his father seem painfully real. They're hoping, but afraid to hope, and covering it in a thin veneer of masculine bravado. The film asks all those typical questions of the genre about what it means to be a man in a world where the men are rarely role-model material. What could be a dank, gritty piece about poverty and deadbeat dads is transformed through Boy's dreams and the sketches from Rocky, (a superhero in the making) who sees more than anyone and says far less. The accents are pretty thick (I'm an Aussie from a thick-accented region and still missed a word or two) but if you can make it through that, I can't imagine an audience that wouldn't enjoy this film. (Oh, and please, please watch the final scene and appreciate it for exactly what it is. I know people have complained that it was meaningless and didn't tie anything up, but who cares? A haka-flavoured ode to Thriller is just as wonderful and ridiculous as you'd imagine. But, if the scene has to mean anything, and I doubt it does, it would be that dreams beat reality every damn time!)
Is your father perfect?
Boy is fun movie that takes place in New Zealand. Directed by Taika Waititi, who also wrote the script. The movie is about a young boy everyone simply calls Boy. Boy lives with his grandmother and his brother Rocky and many of his cousins on a poor-farm in New Zealand in the Bay of Plenty area, and is a huge Michael Jackson fan. This is a movie about a boy that meets his real father and realization hits that his father is not as great as he had hoped. The movie brings in the hard facts that Boy's father is a criminal who returns to dig up a bag of money and has very little care for the boy. It is a coming of age movie and depicts real life drug and money issues, but the main issue is absentee fathers.
This movie started out with the title Choice and then The Volcano before acquiring its current catchy title. The New Zealand hit won 9 awards and received 8 nominations. Awards included Taika Waititi winning AFI Fest 2010 Audience Award Best International Feature Film and for the Sydney Film Festival 2010 Waititi also won Best Feature Film Audience Award.
I think most people will understand and enjoy this movie thanks to a drastic decline in bad fathers in the world.
A New Zealand Classic
Boy is simple yet has a powerful message. So many of us grow up idolising our parents for better or worse. Some tend to terrible role models. Boy is a story of a young boy who puts his father on a pedestal despite being a bad influence. His version and reality differ a lot. We see a great realisation at the end where he sees things for what they are and becomes an adult on his own. It also has great doses of humour littered throughout. 8/10
Boyhood
When his father returns from prison, an adolescent has to wrestle with the possibility that his dad is less interested in him and more in a fortune stashed away in this comedy-drama blend from New Zealand. The film gets off to a delightfully quirky start with humorous cutaways as the title character introduces us to his brother with "special powers", his pet goat and close friends. There is also a lot to like in the responsibility he takes for his brother and his keen interest in Michael Jackson music with the 1980s setting. The magic is not quite the same though when his father enters the picture. Director Taika Waititi is decent enough as the long-absent patriarch who feels so far removed from his son that he asks the boy to refer to him by a different name. There is also a telling scene in which he tells him "we are like bros, you and me", highlighting just how little interest he has in being a father. Solid drama though this provides as the protagonist has to contend with disillusionment, the laughs are not really there and the film never once recaptures its initial zaniness. Of course, this could be argued as a deliberate change of genre to coincide with growing up, but what Waititi does best is quirkiness with some heart and as such this mostly just feels like a stepping stone before 'What We Do in the Shadows' and 'Hunt for the Wilderpeople', the latter of which has laughs from start to finish.
A Hidden Gem of New Zealand
Taika Waititi proves himself yet again as New Zealand's number one cultural export in this comedy/drama about a young Michael Jackson fan in the 80's living in a remote village in New Zealand. The movie is packed to the brim with 80's pop culture references romanticizing everything from E.T. to Thriller. The main attraction of the movie are the performances of Taika Waititi and James Rolleston who have great on screen chemistry as a dead beat dad and his son who idolizes him. A true gem of cinema written and directed by one of the most underrated modern directors.
Unpretentious, joyous and heartbreaking
Boy - 2010 'Boy', set on the East Coast of New Zealand, will make you laugh and cry. Written and directed by Taika Waititi, who also plays the role of Boy's Father, Alamein,this movies is unpretentious,devoid of self pity and beautifully acted. The eleven year old Boy (played by James Rolleston),lives with his brother Rocky and three Cousins. They are cared for by an Aunt (whom we never see) because their Mother is dead and their Father is 'away'. The family is a self-sustaining little unit and although they get by, it is clear they are on the breadline. Boy is a bright, happy, innocent child who idolizes Michael Jackson and is over the moon when he finally gets to meet his Father. When his Aunt goes away, Boy must run the household with the help of his young brother and cousins. Initially things run relatively smoothly but that all changes when, out of the blue, the brothers' Father shows up with the intention of digging up a cache of money he buried years ago. Boy is spellbound by this Father he never knew,and idolizes his every move. As Alamein becomes more comfortable around his sons and the house, it is clear he is not particularly interested in,or capable of,taking on the responsibility of child care. Much of his time is spent horsing around with his mates, drinking beer, smoking weed, puffing up his ego and desperately seeking sources of money. Boy, who was previously picked on at school and ignored by the girl he fancied, is now bursting with pride as he shows off his Father to the folks of the small town. Boy's attempts at emulating his Father are almost painful to watch but, as the treasure hunt goes on and on, Alamein's self-absorption, petulance, anger,and abuse of alcohol and drugs initiates a dramatic shift in the dynamic between Father and Son.
The beauty of this film is its simplicity, outstanding acting and the combination of matter-of-factness, radiant joy and palpable sorrow expressed by Boy as he deals with the radical changes that befall his family life. If you want to see a thoughtful, intelligent, really well made movie,(and if you don't mind getting the Kleenex out),I thoroughly recommend it.
A Light, Whimsical & Bittersweet Indie
Crafted with sincerity, told with affection & exuding an honesty in its emotions, Boy makes for a light & resonant coming-of-age drama and follows an 11-year old Maori kid growing up in a small Kiwi town with his family during the 1980s whose fanciful version of his absentee father gets a reality check when his old man shows up on their doorstep out of the blue one day. Written & directed by Taika Waititi, there is a childlike simplicity in its narration with warmth & sweetness perforating through the images as we get acquainted with our protagonist. Waititi juggles drama with comedy & heart with humour in his own unique, quirky & stirring ways and the authenticity shines through, for the characters are believable & their arcs exhibit welcome depth. The story is as much about the small-town community as it is about the father-son dynamic, all portrayed from our protagonist's perspective. And while it touches on few serious themes, Waititi makes sure the film never loses its adolescent, offbeat touch. The imagery has a raw, unrefined feel to it and the pacing is also slower than necessary but James Rolleston's input still keeps us invested till the end. Overall, Boy is a warm, whimsical & wonderful indie with a beating heart that's brought to life with care & intimacy and promises an experience that's amusing, heartfelt & bittersweet. It is achingly human in its approach, packs an emotional wallop and even ends on an apt note yet for some reason, Taika Waititi's breakthrough feature didn't leave me as dazzled or delighted as all his subsequent films effortlessly managed to. Worth a shot anyway.
Boy is the Man
"Boy" is a light, feel-good movie about a boy who was called Boy (James Rolleston). He told fanciful stories, otherwise known as lies, about himself and his father, Alamein (Taika Waititi). The movie takes place in 1984 when Michael Jackson was at his peak fame, and Boy was his number one fan (at least in New Zealand). When his father came home from prison to search for his hidden loot, Boy wanted nothing more than to hang out with him. Alamein hadn't matured at all in prison, and he returned as a terrible influence on his son. "Boy" is funny and easy to watch. There are very few adults in the film which allows you to experience life in New Zealand through the eyes of the indigenous children. Boy is an especially interesting character which makes the entire movie interesting. AMC+ channel on Amazon Prime.
MJ
I like the bit where he pulled back the road marker and tried to fling the stone
Impressionable age: the world through an eye of a boy
What worked:
beautiful screenplay that leaves us with a difficult and unpleasant emotions going down the road of a boy who wants to get along and be like his dad
What did not work:
maybe the ending was not as powerful as the other parts of the movie, still a well conclusion
Final verdict: Recommended
Precocious Powers
Another solid outing from Taika. Watched it with my 18 year kids, and for them I think some of the heaviness of the film weighed it down as it made its way to the conclusion. Still there's plenty of silliness, and even serious silliness to be had along the way. I enjoyed it more than the lads, but sure there's some bittersweet which suits my palate better. "Boy" doesn't find its footing as well as the "Wilderpeople" which is a must-watch by all of our family sub-standards. That film gets its pain out of the way earlier, and the risks become more or less laughable, in "Boy" the risks start to stack up and cannot chuckled or Hakka'd away. One question I had afterwards : Is there a precariousness of precociousness? Watiti surely loves the wisdom of youth, especially outcast youth. In this film it feels like the Dad (really an overgrown child) is overshadowed by Boy, and to me Boy in turn was overshadowed by Rocky. Maybe Watiti is just fed up with adults, unless they are the undead? Curious to see a film from him without kids.... It was also interesting to see the accompanying black and white short ("two cars, one night" I think it was called) that had precocious kids but also all kinds of film school moves to it.
Didn't know whether to laugh or cry... so I did both... couldn't help it!
Didn't know whether to laugh or cry... so I did both... couldn't help it!How do I this film justice without explicitly explaining the nuanced hilariousness of it all? OK, so there is this underlying sadness at the children's' misfortune, this subtle pity for their future, and this unease as the "father" turns up all "cool" with his two inept mates. But then there are so many points I had to not burst out laughing really REALLY loudly - didn't help I was watching it late in bed. There's not much sentimentality, but you're kind of wanting their to be. So when at the end its poised to potentially provide some... well, I cried more than I have for any film in very long time. But then I was in stitches - almost instantly. Terrific juxtaposition of emotions! Totally what I look for in a film - as well as a little escapism.
funny, thoughtful, touching
This low-key drama involves a young Michael Jackson fan who lies to goats and idolizes his ex-con dad, who so doesn't deserve it. The title character is, like most children, deeply flawed, but also quite relatable, and the movie is at times painfully real while also dipping into flights of fancy.
Recommended.
Taika shows potential, as Time of Gypsies meets Silence of the - Goats
All slums look like one another, be it Gypsy slums of Romania or South American or Indian slums, or indeed the homes of the poverty stricken Maori. Many an African American will also find a lot in common with the heroes of this movie, as theme of absent fathers are as proverbial as occasional sip of Kool Aid or a nice slice of juicy watermelon. Our Boy (pardon the pun) shows some potential. The best part of the movie comes after the ending, when Taika turns Thriller homage into a Maori dance. The movie is quite depressing, and director has not yet fully matured at the time of making this movie, as movie is occasionally painful to watch, yet some of his soulful idiosyncrasies are already present, and the movie speaks volumes about where Taiki really comes from. Worth a watch as a personal movie of author that shows potential, later vindicated, and an extra credit for after credit dance routine.
Funny, moving, nostalgic, absolutely beautiful movie.
I came across this movie purely by chance whilst following links across the internet & boy am I glad I did! (If you'll excuse the pun). I've never been to NZ but have worked & socialised with plenty of Kiwis over the years & a bit of basic awareness of NZ culture (Long live the Dog!) is certainly an advantage in getting the most out of this film. However, do not despair ye of limited knowledge for there is a veritable cornucopia of every human emotion served up for your delectation that will appeal to all regardless of class, creed, health, wealth or beauty. And when the latest blockbuster rom-com/superhero/zombie/action-or- whatever flick has faded to a bland, slightly recalled, insignificance 'Boy' will still be with you. A line of dialogue, a cheeky face, a child's drawing, something will surface at the most unexpected moment that will induce a warm cosiness, a feeling of everything is going to be OK & a slightly stupid grin will probably slip onto your face. But there's the rub folks, because your chances of seeing it in your local multiplex are non-existent. TV can re-run 40 year old James Bond movies ad infinitum whilst neglecting gems like this & you will probably only be reading this review if you've already seen the film & are checking out previous work by those involved. So in the end we all lose, such a shame as, now more than ever, we need movies like these that rise above our petty daily grievances and give us all a feeling of wanting to belong to a more generous, carefree & happy society.
Maori Moonwalking
1984, deep in Maori country life is laden with hardship from youthful ages. Despite cheerful exuberance and tall tales allowing children to walk the moon the surroundings are destitute, unpromising, when stuck amongst the resigned alcoholism and passiveness of adult role models. Boy (James Rolleston), Rocky (Te Aho Aho Eketone-Whitu) and Dynasty (Moerangi Tihore) are now being brought up by their grandmother, as their mother died during childbirth (to Rocky) and their father Alamein (perfectly portrayed by director / writer Taika Waititi) is doing jail time. Creating fables about his father (ex-war hero, living the high life, and so on) Boy, as the oldest, has been given adult tasks of fending for his younger kin, despite being only 12 years old. Despite having 'potential' he wastes away his time up to mischief with his peers, conveying dream-like stories about his father to his pet goat Leaf, as a getaway from the load of responsibility. The situation changes when Alamein returns to them, not quite a fatherly figure, but nonetheless fulfilling wants of his sons, especially Boy. Strong, masculine, with wicked Michael Jackson moves, Boy becomes enticed with emulating his father. Alamein on the other hand has only returned to town to dig up a stash he buried before being incarcerated, but slowly grows attached to his flesh and blood in ways he doesn't want to admit to himself.
Despite the above synopsis "Boy" is nowhere as dramatically morose, as the subject matter would suggest. Instead it is layered with wry, at times brilliant, humour, which manages to pack both an emotional and comedic wallop of epic proportions. Fronted by three charismatic performances of the father and his two sons, comes off an instant classic, which despite dealing with issues similar to that of "Once Were Warriors" has an entirely different take. Comedy and drama intermingle seamlessly delivering one of the most enjoyable movies in memory, whilst delivering a sombre portrayal of the Maori community, not quite as proud and victorious as some would want. Within the confines of a coming-of-age story lies a heartfelt story with immense impact. The ultimate victor is Taika Waititi, arguably now hot property and one of the most promising actors / directors / screenwriters in the world, who deserves all the praise and the success afforded to him by this movie.
And whatever you do don't turn off the movie before the end credits or you miss out on the absolutely epic "Haka Thriller"!
Simple yet warm and funny movie
1984. An 11-year old boy, known simply as Boy, lives with his grandmother, brother and four cousins on a farm in rural New Zealand. His mother is dead and his father, Alamein, is in jail. Then Alamein escapes from jail and heads back home, arriving, with two sidekicks, when the grandmother is out for a few days. Boy is grateful for an opportunity to bond with his father, but all Alamein is there for is to find the stolen money he buried...
Simple yet warm and funny movie. The second movie directed by Taika Waititi, who went on to direct What We Do In The Shadows, Hunt For The Wilderpeople and Thor: Ragnarok.
Starts very well. Very funny in the set-up phase with some interesting characters and relationships and room for great plot and character development. Great scenery and cinematography.
The second act continues the good work, initially, and we seem headed for a greatly profound and emotional climax. However, from a point the movie seems to falter, lose direction and drift. It's not dull or unengaging, just directionless and fairly disappointing after the great start.
The ending is rather poignant, but still feels incomplete.
Overall: very good, largely due to the humour and warmth, but had the potential to be brilliant.
One thing: stick around for the end-credits. The Haka version of Michael Jackson's Thriller is brilliant, and funny.
A rare thing; an excellent slice of life movie.
D and I saw this beautiful and rare film yesterday in Fremantle and both of us enjoyed it tremendously. It was a breath of fresh air; a film that lets the viewer look into the lives of people, the New Zealand Maoris, who virtually never have the chance to show what their world is about. Here comes the huge generalization that school teachers try, sometimes successfully, to weed out of their students: the Maoris are the indigenous people of New Zealand and (generalization) like all colonized people around the world they have suffered terribly at the hands of their colonizers, the Anglo Europeans. The "Boy" does not spare the viewer when confronting these impacts but they are not thrown at the viewer like a massive head-butt; they are only shown as the common factors of a life being led. As opposed to the movie's commentators, I was particularly attracted to the father played by Tanka Waititi; the boy of the story, his son, was virtually a canvas upon which Waititi painted his strange attempt at reality. I know, I know film students will say it has all been done before, his character is a cutout etc., etc. I've read it many times before but the fact remains that he and his gang (of three) are funny and his exploits (used in the broadest sense of the word) are funny. I found the entire film very sad but the fact that it was made by Maori people, exposing their lives made for a fascinating peek into a society unexamined by most of us Anglos.
unforgettable touching characters
This movie takes place in a New Zealand poverty-stricken tribal community in 1984. Alamein "Boy" lives with his younger siblings and grandmother. His hero is Michael Jackson. He has friends. He has a nemesis. He has a crush. While his grandmother is away for a funeral, his absentee father returns. The father is a druggie ex-con, and a horrible influence on Boy. Boy places his hopes and dreams on running away with his father. The start is brilliantly humorous. The relationship is heart breaking. The father is frustratingly childish. The life that they lead is engrossing. There are a couple of great performances from these unknown actors.
An absolute triumph of a movie on every level.
This is simply one of the best New Zealand movies made in any century. The story is a richly charactered, well researched, emotionally powerful, and hugely entertaining blend of culture, comedy, music, and drama. I absolutely take my hat off(not that I usually wear one) to Taika Cohen and his crew, they have delivered one of the best films of this year, and that being from all countries. The story is well documented by other users so I won't bore you with the details of that, but for me the main talking point of this film is the exquisite performances of the two lead children. While James Rolleston as Boy has a very vocal part in the film his delivery, range of emotions, and expressions are so important to the film's success, and he pulls this off with such ease, and is such a joy to watch. His fragile brother Rocky, played by Te Aho Aho Eketone-Whitu, turns in to be what I consider one of the best and most emotionally powerful performances from a child in any film I have seen. His role is largely speechless(though he certainly has a share of words to deliver) yet he is able to convey what his character is thinking and feeling through facial expressions, and almost in a sense through his eyes. I cannot recommend this film enough, we went to see it two days ago and I am still smiling from the memory of this great film. The incorporation of Michael Jackson tributes into the film could have been hard to pull off in some movies, yet here Cohen blends these in to the mix with great effect, in particular the final scene which simply has to seen to be fully appreciated. The comedy elements have universal appeal, and are well dispersed throughout the film.
Just go see it when you are able, as simple as that. Brilliant...........
So Much Michael Jackson!
Set on the east coast of New Zealand in 1984, Boy, an 11-year-old kid and devout Michael Jackson fan, gets a chance to know his father, who has returned to find a bag of money he buried years ago.
This is the rise of Taika Waititi in all his glory. Whole "Eagle vs Shark" is a fun, offbeat, quirky romance, and is often compared (both favorably and unfavorably) to "Napoleon Dynamite", it falls short just a bit. It is with "Boy" that we see the greatness Waititi is capable of and would continue with such films as "What We Do in the Shadows" and "Hunt for the Wilderpeople".
Exactly how they got away with so much Michael Jackson is beyond me. But I suppose if you don't use the music and just focus on the imagery, you can pass it off as a loving homage or satire. Heck, if I was Jackson, i would have been flattered.
WARNING: You could be clapping in public at the end of this !
I'll start, unfairly perhaps for any new movie, by comparing it with thoughts that other NZ movies have left me with - only to explain how it left me feeling. I am smiling as I recall the movie and type this. A good sign! So, Eagle v Shark's quirkiness. Whale Rider's pathos & culture. Bro Town's language skills (who'd have thought "Egg" would be so eloquent a derogatory remark!) Second Hand Wedding's humanity, commentary on relationships & our overall resilience. Good things will happen. Every Boy's natural instinct to worship their father - irrespective of whether he's earned it or not - is shown against the halcyon backdrop of an east coast life in Godzone. I laughed out loud at Rockys apology for abuse of his special powers to knock an old fella over. I ached when Boy's Dad returned and the interactions between them - the hero worship meeting with reality; a coming of age. Taika's now customary expansion of characters was excellent - flawed, bravado filled fragile wee worlds we all build up. I have not served Boy adequately in this random review - its an amazing film. 9/10. Made me feel happy & glad to be alive and living in NZ.
According to Hollywood, childhood is either a magical, shiny age of oblivious joy and discovery, or full of terrible people and generally sh*t. Thankfully, there's Boy, the brainchild of weirdo genius Taika Waititi, here to wallop us with a knuckle sandwich of truth, then share a melting popsicle with us, staring off at a hazy sunset through a black eye. It's a film ruled by a tyrannical bullsh*t radar, seething with raw emotion but flayed of any obnoxious coddling moralizing or contrivance. It knows that the happiest memories are often witnessed through tears, and that the most profound epiphanies usually come waist-deep in mud and manure... then turn out to be 100% wrong. It knows that your idols matter, truly matter, even as you watch them disintegrate before your eyes. It's a film that knows that lying can sometimes be okay when the truth sucks too much. It's a film that knows that childhood means riding a dolphin brandishing a machine gun as much as it means having heart-to-hearts with your goat. It's a film with absolutely nothing to prove about people with altogether too much to prove. It's a film that knows that buried treasure really is buried treasure, even if it's something altogether scummier. It's a film that understands exactly how beautiful and lonely New Zealand is. It's a film that knows that the Incredible Hulk is a hero, but that there's a reason people outgrow their childhood heroes. It's a film that knows that a beatdown is really a dance-off. It's a film that understands colour and music in a way that other films only dream they could. It's a film that knows that children can withstand anything, and I mean anything, but that they shouldn't have to. It's a film that understands just how hard it is to miss someone, especially when they're right in front of you. It's a film that knows that not everyone is going to be all right, but some people will be, and that's all right. It's a film that knows that sometimes you cast that weird kid from the background as your lead, because you just have a good feeling about him, and he turns out to act the pants off all the professionals because he just gets it. It's a film that knows that sometimes you cast the director as the kid's dad, because he's just too adorable and f*cked up not to. It's a film that gets that sometimes you need to switch to cartoons to show the real truth, because live action film is too old-fashioned to believe in telekinesis. And if you told Boy that it just might be one of the most wildly wonderful films of the past who-knows-how-long, it would probably sucker-punch you, then moonwalk away, flipping you off. But then it would crack a secret, fiercely proud smile when it was sure you weren't looking anymore. Promise you'll never tell. Hee-hoo. -10/10
This movie is a little Gem! Recommended.
This New Zealand made movie had me laughing and entertained right from the outset. In fact, within the first five minutes, there were more laughs than some comedy movies manage to achieve in their entirety. The movie 'Boy' is proof that a good script, decent characters and plenty of laughs produces a better result than big budget movies with no originality and plenty of marketing. Go and see this -- but only if you like decent movies, 1980 references, laughing and characters you'll care about; a blend of serious under-currents wrapped up in quirky NZ humor. For New Zealand viewers, some of the scenes will seem so familiar; something you'll be able to relate to...but anyone can watch this.
The little gem from NZ
There are very few movies coming out of NZ that are memorable at all, and stumbling upon such a gem is quite a rarity! I rarely take time to write reviews, but I felt that this movies deserves one:) There is hardly any fault in this movie from direction and acting perspective, although I have to reckon I have never heard of anyone from the main movie credits... Combining unknown actors with a very simple script is a recipe for disaster, in general,BUT not in this film. I think the charm of the movie comes from kids that are playing their roles just perfect:innocent but responsible when need it. The last scene of the movie makes you feel that you've just experienced something unique that comes on the screen once in 10 years! If you manage to get the DVD, invite some friends over and have an '80 night at the movies: all of them they'll feel happy at the end!
He Has Potential
The key word in "Boy" is "potential." It's repeatedly spoken aloud by the title character (James Rolleston), an eleven-year-old Maori living in Waihau Bay, New Zealand in 1984. Initially, he has no idea what it means. All the same, he thinks he has plenty of it. From our perspective, his circumstances suggest otherwise; he lives a meager existence on a farm with his grandmother, Nan (Mavis Paenga), his kid brother, Rocky (Te Aho Aho Eketone-Whitu), a pet goat named Leaf, and several cousins. All he really has going for him is his love of Michael Jackson and memories of his father. Even then, they aren't real memories. They're merely tall tales Boy has invented as a coping mechanism for his absence. In reality, his father has been out of the picture for several years, having been sent to prison for robbing the local gas station. When Nan goes off to Wellington to attend a funeral, Boy is left in charge. This would be right around the start of the summer holiday, at which point he first hears one of his teachers use the word "potential" and becomes fixated on it. Not long after, three men drive up to Boy's home. One of them is his long-lost father, Alamein (Taika Waititi, also the film's writer and director). Boy is immediately taken by him. He has a cool black car. He has started his own gang called The Crazy Horses. True, it currently only has three members, but at least Alamein gets to wear a badass leather jacket with the logo on the back. He likes Michael Jackson too, but he's an even bigger fan of Steven Spielberg's "E.T. the Extra-Terrestrial," and he will spend a great deal of time professing his admiration for E.T.'s magic healing touch. At this point, Boy has looked up the word "potential" in the dictionary. All the fancy words used in the definition confuse him, and yet he seems to get the general idea. With his father back in his life, he believes he has finally found his potential: To be exactly like him. Alamein eventually says that he doesn't wish to be addressed as Dad but as Shogun, like a Japanese warrior. In response, Boy wishes to be addressed as Little Shogun. The two will for a time come together as they dig holes in a nearby field looking for what Alamein calls buried treasure. We already know that, in reality, Alamein and his men are looking for the spot in which they buried the money they stole from the gas station. His problem is that he can't remember how many paces he went into the field, nor the fencepost from which he started. What kind of potential does Alamein have? The audience is not made to see him in the same way as Boy – an aggrandized figure at the center of several amateur reenactments of Michael Jackson music videos. Instead, he's made to be seen as an opportunist, a buffoon, a manipulator, a marijuana smoker, a hard drinker, and generally someone who is dangerous and unreliable. Boy will eventually pick up on this, forcing him to reassess his own potential. No matter what part of the world you're from, this is called growing up. Simultaneously, he will go through all the typical adolescent trials and tribulations, including trying to impress the girl of his dreams (RickyLee Waipuka-Russell), inflating his reputation by passing off the vacuum hose mark on his chest as a hickey, and avoiding the local bully and his big brother. Alamein will occasionally offer advice in these areas, even though he has no idea what he's doing or saying. Meanwhile, Rocky is the subject of an absorbing yet oddly disconnected subplot in which he befriends a local drifter Boy has dubbed Weirdo (Waihoroi Shortland), who spends all his time crouched over as he looks for things in the dirt. We don't know if he's homeless, mentally challenged, both, or neither. All we do know is that he's the only person willing to indulge Rocky in his belief that he possesses super powers – the ones bestowed by his mother as she died giving birth to him. There's a touching moment when he approaches his father, puts his fingers on his forehead, and apologizes for killing his mother. It's unclear whether or not Alamein blames Rocky for her death, as he never treats Rocky any better or worse than Boy. Rocky is a source of frustration for Boy, although there seems to be no reason for it apart from the convention that older brothers automatically hate their younger brothers. Perhaps it's the fact that Rocky sees the world differently, namely as animated childhood doodles on sheets of college-ruled paper. Indeed, he spends a lot of time drawing pictures, mostly as his mother's gravesite. Does the word "potential" apply to him too? Surely it must apply to everyone. The message of "Boy," I believe, is that we each possess positive and negative attributes, and that the key to a successful life is finding the right balance. The film isn't so conventional as to show this happening with any of the characters; we merely see the process of living from day to day and taking things as they come. As they say, it's not the destination that's important, but the journey.
A refreshing eccentric version of a road well travelled
I went along to this film hoping that it would not be an awkward repeat of the Maori-against-the-world-old-chestnut that seems to pop up far too commonly here in NZ: and I was not disappointed!
This was a fantastically enjoyable film that managed to tackle some prolifically odious practices that (still) exist (illicit gang affiliation, the lack of reasonable care and responsibility for children, drug abuse, poverty) without being gratuitously violent. Surprisingly, and very refreshingly, the writer even succeeded to make this film wonderfully heart warming and funny.
Thoroughly recommended.
Perfect! Take note Hollywood
Beautiful, funny at times, never maudlin, coming of age for the children and adults in the film. Shot in a small town that is genuinely the town that the author/actor (father) actually grew up in. He spoke after our screening, and it was a 30 kid school house, which it still is. Actually the film is a huge success in NZ and the little community gets a small percentage of the gross, so the community is benefiting from this film.
The film captures a time and place in history and culture. It is slow and yet the story develops and covers a lot of ground. What I especially loved is that the camera doesn't jump around like Hollywood movies, changing every 5 seconds. It stays with the character.
Put on your list!
Man
Introspective narrative can work profound change, and this is a good example. The story is simple enough: New Zealand native village; extreme poverty; passel of young kids establishing the world of the narrative. One of these is our narrator, the Boy, about ten. His primary concern is how he appears to his mates and the local girls. Various comic devices set the tone before his father arrives back from prison. We then see some endearing shared fantasies, before Boy gets the truth about his Dad as selfishly irresponsible. The shape is generally called "coming of age." Thousands of these have been made. They have a built in minimal appeal, and great constraints on the ability to say anything new. But this does have something new, thanks to the apparently limitless gateway of self- reference. We watch the movie that includes an inner movie of the boy's life, composed of fragments of other movies. We've had this since "Breathless," of course. The fragments have to do with roles associated with the father, mostly war movies, and about Boy, mostly Michael Jackson videos. Here's something new: after we get all that settled, there is a second inner movie fold that appears, the Dad and his cohorts. He brings his own inner movie, different than Boy's. It is one of a rebel gang: James Dean, Marlon Brando. Boy tries to adapt his inner movie to his dad's and in the process breaks both. Along the way, there is a spectrum of what we see: the narrator in the film, his ordinary life, his fantasies as he sees them. His fantasies as we see them. His dad's fantasies as he, we and Boy sees them. Taika Cohen wrote, directed and stars as the dad. It is good, very good.
It's the afterglow that counts
I had been told how funny this movie was, and there are quite a few chuckles in the first 20 minutes or so, and then it buckles down to show us the real story of pre-pubescence in a rural community and the father-son thing. It was explored in depth and very well too, and never gets nasty as some NZ movies can do, but still wrings your heart out. The end-piece was stunning, utilising the obsession with a teenage Michael Jackson and humour as only the NZ Maori do. I left the theatre with mixed feelings but since then I have felt buoyed up (sorry) and am remembering it fondly. Will definitely see it again and may add it to my small collection of NZ films. Others have mentioned Eagle and Shark and Secondhand Wedding, but this is more historical and captures the era perfectly. Well done all - especially to all the actors under 20, we know the adults can act, but these fellas will be worth watching out for in the future.
Film is a remarkable medium. The broad class of storytelling and related emotional invocation is similarly broad. Watching these affirms my commitment to something else: long form cinema. These are short form, about a minute or so. Some are by well known filmmakers, including some I truly admire. Others involved seem to be popular figures in the art scene. The provenance of the project seems to have been a liquor distributor, the target the Beijing Film Festival, and the theme dreaming. Some are simple depictions of dreaming. Others try to register some evocative, usually disturbing dream. And yet others treat their project as if it were art as it seems to be defined today. I will leave it to others whether that latter class is worth your attention. What intrigues me is which of these work because they used the power of cinema and narrative to work for me. Films that work do so by making a story that entangles with the stories I host internally. They entangle one another in ways (usually more than one) where I cannot escape being changed. When you have a sixty second film you need to do more than merely capture attention. You cannot slide us into a world, you have to shiv into the one I carry, ideally through an unguarded invagination. The depressing thing is that not one of these did this for me. Quite possibly seeing them all at once makes this difficult but I think the opposite is the case. After a couple, you open yourself to the rhythm; you prepare yourself to carry the unresolved. You rest into concentrated vision. Only one of these drew me back time and again and surprised me because it is the least cinematic in the traditional sense. And the most open in the narrative sense. Do not read further until you see it. It is by Rinko Kikuchi and features her face. She opens it enough and we have enough time to join it on our own terms. We map our own story onto it because she gives us absolutely none. And then after we have voyaged with her in our story, she expertly takes control and a tear appears. You simply cannot avoid crying. For me it was a gasp and tears. It isn't her. It is my own revealed grief evoked. You need to see this. The others might be interesting in some context, but not cinema, not narrative. Ryan McGinley has an arresting segment.
Terrible cringey remake
I can just see the original inbetweeners reacting to this and being disappointed and i feel bad for them THIS US REMAKE IS HORRIBLE i love the uk inbetweeners but this just an awful piece of crap and it can eat a bowl of ass.
Excellent, original, fun
This is one very amusing movie. Not taking itself too seriously, but managing to bring freshness and originality and many many new angles to the vampire genre. It is witty, it looks nice and is wholeheartedly recommended.
Vampires meet documentary
What a refreshing film! What we do in the shadows is one of the most original films in the last several years, I enjoyed everything about this movie, the characters were funny, the story is gripping, and the overall idea is just spectacular! This is one of those films that you don't have to give much thought to, you can just sit back and enjoy!
An Interview With A Vampire
Documentaries are a difficult format because they will always, always be criticized, in some format or way someone will find fault with them. That's why it's always better and more fun to make a mockumentary, and this is where we find What We Do In The Shadows, a spoof documentary about a set of vampires in New Zeland who are flat sharing, so I suppose the reel question is will this have me howling From Dusk Till Dawn or will it just feature Lost Boys?
It's an obvious statement to make but vampires have been around a LONG time in cinema, and we have seen many different interpretations of them from Nosferuatu, to the Bram Stoker's Dracula and now modern age of Twilight. They are probably the 3 hall marks of Vampire films, but there are so many more; 30 Days Of Night, Underworld, Daybrakers and Blade are just a few of the movies that people quickly forget that still have vampires as a main feature, and in the past if we are honest with ourselves all we have ever really seen is spoof films of other Vampire movies, The Fearless Vampire Hunters and Darcula Dead And Loving It are two that leap instantly to mind, but that's where What We Do In The Shadows is strongest, because it's not a spoof of another movie, it is it's own film that makes jokes about vampires as a whole and not just one plot strand.
The principle of having a film crew follow vampires around is funny all on it's own but once you start mixing in well thought out characters, jokes that have pace and a story that develops perfectly you get a movie which all on its own can stand up and be counted as classic. The movie is written and directed by Taika Waititi and Jemaine Clement.Jemaine is one half of The Flight Of The Concords and Taika is a man who wrote many of the episodes for them as well as chunks of The Inbetweeners. I think that sort of inner madness and logic that is clear in The Flight Of The Concords TV show spills over into What We Do In The Shadows, there are so many off beat unpredictable moments that you can't help but laugh at them all.
It's true I could pull out sections of the film and highlight them as funny but what would be the point in that? However I will give you a small measure of how clever the film is, there is a sequence in which the trio are preparing to go out on the town, however because they have no reflections they have to sketch each other so they can see what outfits work and don't. It's that sort of clever overlooked humour which is imbedded into What We Do In The Shadows.
What We Do In The Shadows is a witty, clever, funny comedy which is far superior to most of the main stream trash we have to suffer in cinemas.
It's Impossible to Kill the Comedy At Stake in This Vampire Romp
Not So Dark Shadows
If you are a fan of "Flight of the Conchords' then you will love this movie currently on Netflix. Written and directed by Jemaine Clement (the larger looming but no less adorable half of the 'Conchords') and Taika Waititi (who breathed new life into the 'Thor' franchise directing 'Thor: Ragnarok'), this film combines our seemingly immortal fascination with vampire lore with the deft and unprepossessing comic sensibilities of New Zealand, all packaged in the satirical style of a mockumentary. Karen O'Leary and Mike Minogue stand out as the affable and mildly paternalistic police constables. Rhys Darby (Murray, the band manager from 'Conchords') is hilarious as the leader of a wolf pack that is more wolf support group. The movie spun off two television series; 'Wellington Paranormal' in New Zealand and an American version of 'Shadows' . Both equally as funny.
Dead but delicious.....
Funniest movie I've seen for many years.
Taika Waititi and Jemaine Clement absolutely smash the ball out of the park with this one.
To call this merely a vampire mockumentary is massively under playing this work of comedy genius. A real character study with fantastic performances from the entire cast.
Set in urban modern day New Zealand, we follow the day to day lives of a group of flat sharing vampires.
I will not spoil this movie. If you like comedy of all kinds, but specifically quirky humour, this is for you. I haven't literally laughed out loud so much ever!
Go watch it, right now!
A Perfect Film
I won't belabor it. Others have traced the plot.
SImply, this film perfectly fulfills its premises and accomplishes brilliantly what has seemed, over the years, to have become impossible: a loving send-up of the vampire/horror genre with invention, wit, and intelligence with genuine, creative novelty.
Performances are lovely and as an ensemble piece the actors seamlessly present a fictive world and community that are both drearily contemporary and timeless. I would go out of my way to see any of the three lead actors in other roles. They are wonderful.
The screenplay is hilariously clever. Cinematography and editing keep to the mock-documentary premise while aping horror conventions and at times providing genuinely creepy touches. Set design is smartly tawdry and special effects judiciously convey a professional gloss while remaining aligned to the low-end, indy feel of the work.
Every element of the film is in place. In its own way, "What We Do in the Shadows" a comedic masterpiece.
It's bloody brilliant
I have precious little time for mockumentaries apart from those that come from Christopher Guest and ensemble. However, this is one worth watching. It's silly and gory, but, utterly entertaining and, at times, quite sweet, but, best of all, it's genuinely funny. The cast are excellent, the Vampires are each clearly based of famous cinematic Vampires so you can identify with them. And can I say, I really love Stu. All I can really say is that you should give it a go.
Absolutely Genius Comedy
I haven't laughed this hard in a long time. I watched it again and laughed just as hard!
In the genre of comedy-horror there are few movies that will actually get you laughing at the material, versus laughing at how bad the movie is. "What We Do in the Shadows" is a diamond in the rough. It's a truly fun film to watch. It relentlessly pokes fun at the Hollywood clichés about vampires, films like the "Twilight" series, and clichés throughout the horror genre.
A BIG tip of the hat to Jemaine Clement and Brett McKenzie for making such a great film.
I really loved the soundtrack. It fits the film perfectly.
This is a great movie to watch when you want a good laugh at something that's off the beaten path from the usual comedy flick. Especially if you like a dark comedic twist (and a literally dark twist), this is definitely a movie for you!
Very Enjoyable!
I enjoyed this film. It had me laughing out loud many times. I liked how the themes were portrayed. I am not one for blood and gore so that was a bit of a turnoff, but overall, I highly recommend this film!
What a great and funny movie!!
Ok this movie is a gem!!!!! I had never heard of it before until my 16 yr old daughter asked me to watch it with her. Not really wanting to watch it, to make her happy I did. WELL was I surprised!!! I have seen it 20 more times, what a great movie. You just have to watch it to know what I mean!!!! The actors are outstanding loved everyone of them.
Amazing
This movie was hilarious. I was not stop laughing, some scenes it was hurting when I was laughing
Clever, funny and unique
I don't normally like comedy movies. My tastes are more towards live comedy and topical humour and these don't translate well to cinema. However this was a film I found really enjoyable and I actually lol'd a couple of times.
I watched this film because I'm a fan of Jemaine Clement and I enjoyed Taika Waititi's previous film "Boy" (2010) immensely. I love their quirky NZ sense of humour; and despite not really liking their earlier collaboration (Eagle vs Shark, 2007), I thought this would be worth seeing.
The cast is superb and the performances exceptional, from Taika Waititi's bossy vampire to Stu Rutherford's subtle discomfort. Throw in Clement as the burnt out vampire who struggles to display the great power he once had, and Rhys Darby doing his usual thing and there is not a moment in this film I didn't enjoy.
This is a good one to watch with a few friends who share an enjoyment of dark humour.
A Bite out of the Ordinary
Hilarious Throughout
This completely subverted my expectations. After getting tastes of Taika Waititi's sense of humour sprinkled throughout Thor Ragnarok and JoJo Rabbit, this to me feels like the definitive Taika film and it's absolutely hilarious. The deadpan humour, relatable gags and performances themselves just blend to form a great comedy. The runtime could be a little tighter in my opinion as there is no intent, it's kind of just aimlessly wandering from joke after joke. Regardless it's near enough hilarious throughout if you enjoy this kind of humour.
Felt like it was 200 minutes
Okay, so there are funny moments.
This is a British style comedy shot in New Zealand, so the humor is very British.
But why did it feel like the 86 minutes of the run time were so damn long?
So the reason is that the whole thing seems so dumb, there weren't any kind of attempts of world building, nothing made too much sense, it's like part of the joke is the fact that it's all nonsense which works in something like The Office, but not here.
I was watching it with my wife and we both ended up asking each other "How much more is there left in the run time?"
So it's pretty dry, pretty on the nose, even if shot soft of well.
Great
Brilliantly subtle humour, great performances throughout, loved the randomness of it, fun way to present vampires and werewolves in a modern human world.
Love vampires? Then this will be hilarious to you
First I have to say the trailer for this film was put together nicely. It really high-lighted some of the funny parts but definitely not all. I love vampires and I love vampire movies so it was easy to see them poking fun at other films like Nosferatu, Interview with the vampire, and of course The lost boys. This film is definitely in the spirit of such films as Shaun of the dead and Dylan Dog but these guys picked up on what seems to be a new style of filming; the documentary type style.
I thought it worked really great for this film and even made it funnier. The three main actors were fantastic and perfect for their parts, Stuart was a bit of a side character and I thought maybe the actor playing him was too old. It seemed weird the young kid they turned into a vampire would be friends with him. Also I thought the actor that played the young kid was a little bland at times. Not as present and into the roles as the others were.
My main complaint is I wasn't too crazy about the set. The house looked way too old which I know is what they were going for but it looked more like the run down house from Fight Club than a sophisticated vampire pad. To end on a good note this movie was unexpectedly laugh out loud funny to me and any other fan of vampire films.
One of the funniest films I've seen
From Taika Waititi, What We Do is a mockumentary of vampire flat-mates that is as funny as any film you'll see. It's strongest in its first 3/4's, and I must give my pick for favorite character to Petyr. It's just pure fun, and is an early reminder of the talent that Waititi is.
Outstanding And Entertaining Work
Before viewing this title I didn't think it would appeal to me much as a horror comedy documentary. I'm glad I gave it a chance though. Having watched countless horror flicks, I would say there are not many whose attempt a humor I appreciate (Slither, Young Frankenstein, and Perhaps Sam Rami's Evil Dead are the only ones that come to mind). This however succeeds with it's serious documentary style footage of what it's like to be a vampire.
Twice while watching this, I started laughing out loud so much that I even had to pause the movie on one occasion. I commend the writers and actors with this production, this is definitely a keeper.
Hmmm... did we all watch the same movie?
The movie falls flat in all aspects... it's ao boring it would be more entertaining watching paint dry... some people mentioned that some don't like it because it lack plot and has bad cinematography, well, luckily I don't need neither to enjoy a good comedy but still wasn't funny.
Comedy is subjective after all but the amount of 10 ratings is astonishing! It has dry humor which I do like and still fell flat.
Hasn't done the bloody dishes for five years
What We Do in the Shadows is a hilarious mockumentary that gains "full access" to a secret New Zealand society who gather for the "The Unholy Masquerade". At the film's outset, we meet Viago, a fastidious vampire who introduces his fellow flatmates to discuss the challenges of their shared "living" arrangements. Among their issues is the fact that Deacon hasn't done the bloody dishes for five years. Much of the film's humour is understated and deals with the more mundane aspects of vampire life. Although there is little in the way of plot, the documentary format serves as ample basis for the many satirical gags that pay homage to almost every theme in the vampire genre (Klaus Ming March 2015).
Gem from New Zealand
Great to see Jemaine again now that Flight of the Concords is over. The entire cast here is extraordinarily talented; comedy is hard to pull off consistently, but these Kiwis make it look easy. The whole production is just about perfect for what it is, in my opinion. Costumes and special effects are solidly serviceable, and in some instances more spectacular than really necessary; this is NOT a complaint of course.
Give your cerebrum a rest and enjoy the "hell" out of this hilarious New Zealand treat; hope to see more from this troupe of writers and actors!
Heard about this film and decided to watch it. So funny!
Taika Waititi is great in the movie and has yet to make a film that I won't watch. I absolutely love the premise of this film; just a bunch of vampires living in a flat together. Stu was a great side character and I read that Stu is an actually IT on the set of the movie that didn't realize that his screen time was going to be in the final cut, which makes his character all the better. I feel bad for Peter though, he didn't have to go out like that. Also, BAT FIGHT!
Didn't hold my attention.
When I started watching this movie, I thought I was gonna be in for some good dark comedy, or at least entertainment. I was wrong. I only got 30 minutes into it and I thought it was almost over, it just drags on and on. We get it. They're vampires so they have "kooky" and "quirky" antics. You can't just repeat the same type of cheap jokes over and over and call it a story line. And you know, maybe the rest of the movie is incredible. But that doesn't matter because the first 30 minutes are a waste of my time, so I'm not gonna keep watching. I know comedy is subjective and people have different humor styles, but just because something is shot "documentary style" doesn't make it funny. Oh because The Office did it, so that filming style is automatically a "laugh riot". Please.
"Please, Nick... Have some BOO-SGHETTI"
Hands down one of my favorite comedies of ALL time. This comedy spans time AND generations. I have watched this with my family (mom and dad too!) and we were ALL on the floor just... rolling laughing. SO many great one-liners on top of a quirky cast and hysterical idea for a "vampire mockumentary". I find myself enjoying watching this over the years the same way I did when I first viewed it. It's BRILLIANT.
Best, most original comedy I've ever seen!
Mockumentary film. Feels like Dracula meets Big Brother.
Quirky and Perfect!
Just loved this movie. A must watch. Tongue in cheek kiwi humour combined with some hilarious "fight" and "feast" scenes make this movie a unique and original comedy masterpiece. Leaves Hollywood comedies for dead.
This is one sweet, fresh-smelling dead horse!
Loved it. Anyone who can take not just one trope (vampires, oooo!) but TWO (mockumentaries! So 90s!) and make it fun is a winner in my book.
From the awkward, tooth-baring grins of the first introductory shots, to the panicking werewolves trying to find the right tree or the combination for a padlock before the moon is up, this indy gem had me paying attention and chuckling the whole time.
Yes, vampires are overdone. So what? This was a vampire movie we really haven't seen before, and that alone makes it special. Add in the quality of the humor and the decent visual effects, and it becomes more than special - it becomes (drum roll, please) A CANDIDATE FOR CULT CLASSIC STATUS.
"Bat fight! Bat fight!" actually made me laugh out loud.
If you're a fan of comedy, see this movie.
If you're a fan of vampires, see this movie.
If you're bored and want something unique, see this movie.
And on, and on, and on.
Just do yourself a favor and see it.
It Sucked (in a good way)
One of my favorite comedies!
It's very smart, different, hilarious. A very original idea in a world full of vampires who are 'cool', 'handsome', 'dangerous' etc. This movie is so brilliant that it makes you laugh at these goofy vampires but also somehow relate to them. I will never get tired of watching this movie! I recommend this to people who likes different, original comedies.
A good watch for a relaxed evening
This is a fun and amusing movie. It has some gore in it but that doesn't damage the overall light feeling this movie gives.
It portrays the inhuman characters in a very human way, a thing that many other movies and series tried but failed, you can't but to sympathize with them as they address the daily issues many of us experiencing without being vampires: new roommates, finding your place, dealing with changes.
It really gives a different feeling than all the modern Hollywood films which are focusing on action and drama.
I enjoyed watching it.
Not the vampires we want but the vampires we needed
Say whatever about Taika Waititi, but he is a capable screen writer, director and comedian.
It is story about a bunch of vampires in a reality show and their interaction with the modern world, that made Waititi a famous director.
FUN
This is the type of movie where you know the people making just had a great time and you can feel it as you watch.
I mean when a movie gets turned into a tv show you know it's good. Weirdly it reminds me a bit of Trailer Park Boys , it seems off to compare but i do think they share common ground.
Really entertaining supernatural mockumentary!
Very fun. Lots of great little one-liners that everyone who's ever had buddies or roommates can relate to.
If you've ever seen The Real World, Big Brother, or any of a number of vampire or werewolf movies, and if you've actually got a sense of humor, this will really tickle your funny bone. There are just so many humorous answers to the question "what if vampires lived together like any of us do as roommates?" that you may or may not have ever thought of yourself, you will be giggling over and over.
Good acting, fun "what if" situations, and entertaining writing/plot that moves along decently after setting the scene. Even my 70-year- old mother (who watches The Walking Dead and really enjoyed Interview with a Vampire) thought it was worth watching after she was recovering from a hip replacement and in pain--it really took her mind off that!
This is a sleeper that makes me want to share it with all my geek friends who enjoy mockumentaries and/or vampire stories. It is the Boondock Saints of mockumentaries!
Freaking Hilarious!
Ha ha ha ha ha ha ha!!!!!!!!!!!!!! I can't type coz I am still laughing! Love all the vampires! Hilarious dialogue! I'm still laughing!
Brilliant!
A work of art. So well made. Dry. Fun. Constant flow keeping it fresh. This movie has it all. Virgins. Sexy vampires. An IT specialist. A Chicken. Even spinal columns!
Busted a gut at least 7 times.
The title of this movie sounded so ominous that I couldn't resist watching. Within the first 10 minutes I was laughing out loud. This is one of the funniest films I've seen in a long time. Every character was hilarious, and even Petyr, who looked absolutely terrifying, was a laugh riot. How can four vampires living in the same flat make everything look so funny? It was gory, scary, very clever and totally unexpected. I'll be watching it again very soon just to make sure I didn't miss anything.
So worth it
New Zealand's comedy masterpiece
Co-written by Jermaine Clement and Taika Waititi, this is one of the better comedies I've seen; or at least the best mockumentary I've seen. What is the biggest achievement for this film, though, is probably that it isn't far off Tongan Ninja when it comes to how funny it is.
It's all bloody ridiculous (in a very literal sense, and yes, I did use this joke in my tweet last night). The fact that they're vampires with a lust for blood in New Zealand symbolises exactly what is ridiculous about the film, as it's a very nonchalant atmosphere in a little overshadowed country (what overshadows it? Tonga), and they're there as blood sucking vampires trying not to get their sofas messy when they feed on their prey and having flat meetings and such.
It's like if Flight of the Conchords was set in a vampire mansion in Wellington — and who doesn't want that? I know I want much more of it, because it is bloody funny. From the ghost cup to the beast and to the reason behind drinking virgin blood, it's full of gags, while its nonchalant (yes, I'm using that word again) humour comes to life when blood explodes everywhere and ol' Viago's (Taika Waititi) getting all distressed about it. I mean, I don't know why I even tried to review this film. It's just really, really stupid; but it's really, really great at the same time. See, that's all I needed to say.
Well, I guess I'll say more. The writing and the concepts aren't the only things good about the film. Everything else is also bloody brilliant. The casting, for one, is perfect. Jermaine Clement is about as funny as he usually is, and he along with Jonathan Burgh and Cori Gonzales-Macuer symbolise that unbothered approach the film takes – but horrifically sadistic at the same time — blood and guts are always a nice addition, of course. The documentary style also works well for it, as if it was any other way I don't think it would work.
In conclusion, What We Do In the Shadows is an odd film, but a very funny, very well written and probably very memorable film, and one of the best comedies I've seen. Although it might not be quite as quotable as the glorious Tongan Ninja, and the feeling when someone is being preyed on by vampires and you're in hysterics does get a little weird, if there's anything New Zealand should be proud of, it is this.
Hilarious!
This is such a funny concept, I spent the entire film laughing hysterically. Taika Waititi has such a unique hilarious style and this movie takes deadpan humour to a whole new level. Highly recommend!
What We Do in the Shadows 12/10 - SPOILER ALERT!
Goes right to where it should be
So much fun!
A fresh insight into vampires every night life....
Now we know it. The every night life of a vampire in modern times is not as glamorous as you might think. There are those pesky nightly problems. For example with your fellow vampires or better, fellow undead flatmates. This film offers you fresh insights and finally you realize... Vampires are just people like you and me...well...apart from being able to do the one useful trick or the other - turning into a bat for example. This film is nothing less than hilarious and a definite must-see for people who like vampires AND funny movies. And apart from that...the soundtrack is every bite...sorry...bit as good as the movie itself. So what are you waiting. Fly my fellow friends, fly into the night and look for the next cinema....
What We Do in the Shadows
'What We Do In The Shadows' is an hilarious mockumentary film by the makers of 'Flight of the Conchords'. The movie is filed with brilliant homages and references to vampire films such as 'The Lost Boys', 'Twilight' and 'Let The Right One In'.
The directorial style is very similar to the hit TV show 'The Office' as it is able to create humour in the realism and personal interviews and monologues. This method also allows it to be genuinely scary at times such as when we meet the housemate inspired by 'Nosferatu'. The extreme and realistic gore also comes across as very brutal and juxtaposes the silly gags.
The actors are all very good. Dead pan. Great delivery.
Classic NZ humour
While I wasn't laughing at every joke in this film, it is a fantastically written mockumentary focuses around the lives of 4 vampires roommates ranging drastically in age trying to live in a modern world that is constantly changing and presenting new challenges that come in the forms of boastful new blood-brothers, wannabe vampires, vengeful exes, attempts to befriend reluctant humans, and tension with a local pack of werewolves trying to restrain their savagery.
Only negatives is a few instances of stilted acting here and there and some jokes that just fall short. But I definitely recommend it to everyone that enjoys movies like Napoleon Dynamite, Flight of the Concords, Sasquatch Dumpling Gang, etc.
Very peculiar but extremely entertaining
The concept of a documentary-style comedy about vampires living in Wellington, New Zealand is an odd one. And yet, it works. This movie is very entertaining, and has many hilarious moments. The three main actors are brilliant and the whole cast has great chemistry. The film explores most of the well-known vampire characteristics, and uses them at its advantage to create funny situations and an appealing story. I would highly recommend this movie for an original and entertaining comedy.
Not-that-original Mockumentary That Fires on All Cylinders
wicj4 November 2021
If you don't have a dry sense of humor, don't bother watching. It's not Best In Show dry, but it's not Mel Brooks either. There's a lot of in-your-face gags, but plenty of subtle lines, and nuances that make this a gem. The main characters are all so wonderfully quirky and likeable that you can't help but laugh along side them. The casting and acting is spot-on. I especially loved how Stu, played by Stu, was portrayed. Watch this!
EXTREMELY dry humor but funny movie.
Different from the tv show but just as funny. The humor is dry as a bone but it works. All the characters were funny, Total deadpan comedy.
for the next few
One of my favorites
I have seen this movie probably thirty times. Every time I watch it I find something new. It's so inventive and subtly hilarious. Just genius.
Just go see this... ASAP
This is the funniest vampire movie out there and one of the best mockumentaries that exists. The rich horror detail, extra blood and glorious darkness just add to the laughs. The "historical" and ancient vampire perspective just made it better. I am generally squeamish and have difficulty dealing with horror and suffering but this movie had just enough funny to get me through. Perhaps the familiar faces of Jemaine Clement and Rhys Darby helped me through. I won't spoil anything but just let me say that when you find out who "The Beast" is your sides will hurt from laughing. I'm surprised that I wasn't in pain the next day.
I cannot recommend this enough. Do it.
It doesn't work with chips
Seriously Silly, Entertainingly Undead
Very funny
A delightfully creative idea for a movie. And the plot is decent as well, not deep but you definitely come to care about the characters.
The TV show is far Better
Saying that its made by the same people and i would see this movie as more of a prequal to the TV series. Its still funny, just a little less structured and diffrent to what im used to.
Its worth checking out to see how the movie to show has evolved.
Intentionally funny
When I started watching this I couldn't believe how funny it was. Was it intentionally or accidentally funny? It was intentional and I fell in love.
My All-time Favourite Vampire Movie
Have you ever felt like an underdog, as if you live in the city, but no one knows who you are or how you live your life? Big city dwellers revel in their anonymity. That's what allows Viago, Deacon and Vlad to lead their arboreal lives, entertaining each other and hunting the next meal at a nightclub.
The attention to detail is evident in the script and storytelling. As far as cinematography is concerned, you wouldn't be able to tell that this is a 2014 movie -- it seems at least a decade older. Most of the outdoor shots are in the dark, so there's a cooped-up feel to the movie. That's probably how the tech-oblivious 400 year old protagonists feel, too, sheltered in the shadows, concealing their secrets behind closed doors. It's a lonely life, a boring existence. That is, until rowdy but NZ-civil werewolves come a-howlin'.
HILARIOUS and fun!
What I love most about this movie is how free and easygoing it is, in my opinion. It's funny, but the jokes don't barrel you over repeatedly, they give you enough time to have your laugh over one joke before going to the next. There's a fair amount of drama and action, but its important to the plot, and builds up interesting tension before the climax. Everything in this movie is very well strung together, beautifully acted out, and I fell in love with most all of the characters before the movie even came to the halfway point. The ONLY negative side I could ever give to this movie was that it felt so short, and I was left wishing it could last just a little longer, even if the movie already is 90 minutes. But they added in everything they could, it was all that was needed to impress and I can heartily say that anyone who hasn't seen this movie is missing out on a lot of fun.
Movie warnings: It contains gore, mild/moderate horror themes, sexual innuendos, blurred-out nudity, violence, and plenty of cursing, so this movie is probably not for children. The jokes will fly over their heads and the visuals will scare them. But teenagers and adults will love this movie; I recommend watching it in a group so you can have a barrel of laughs with all your friends, because it is just too good to watch alone.
SUPER FUNNY!!
I never even heard of this film until the Syfy channel started showing commercials for their upcoming TV series for this show, which I will DEFINITIVELY be watching!!
I assume the writers and creators of this show were some of the same people who make "People of Earth" which was also a really good horror comedy TV show. I wish they made a 2nd season, it was REALLY FUNNY, silly, and good!!
Funniest movie of the year
2015 gave us such creative movies and this might be the best and wackiest of the bunch. It is genuinely hilarious, with gags and jokes running from the peak of slapstick comedy to the most ingenious one-liners and it's deep devotion to its vampiric roots, ranging from the playful references to the unique and dark atmosphere, makes this movie one of a kind and thoroughly enjoyable in every way. The humor ranges from crass, bloody and black to simple puns, hysterical visuals and the very odd and very awkward situation. The acting is spot on and inventive. The directing is little more than the office on Halloween but it is perfect for the movie. It exceeded my expectations and will most likely exceed yours.
Hilarious
This film is actually hilarious, while it has sort of slipped past the main spotlight due to its indie-nature and lack of advertising (As most mockumentaries tend to do). Regardless this film is hilariously funny and is a fresh comedy, which is quite nice after all the drivel people like Adam Sandler produce.
The three lead vampires in this film were absolutely fantastic, I loved all three of the main characters and their interactions with Stu. I felt myself giggling at almost every scene, while there is one point in the middle of the film it feels like the jokes are getting a bit old and repetitive but it quickly bounces back with more fresh humour.
Some people say that the mockumentary format does not work I believe that the mockumentary cinematography style of this film adds to the originality and flare of this film, which makes it even more interesting.
I thoroughly recommend this film as it is one of the most original and funny comedy films I have seen since the Grand Budapest Hotel.
Good vampire mockumentary
I had not read any reviews on this film beforehand, and started off wondering what on Earth I had put on. After 10 minutes I was loving the sense of humour and style of jokes.
Definitely a great mockumentary for old school horror fans as long as you know beforehand not to take this film seriously. The acting is intentionally cheesy, and works well. Some of the situations these "vampires" end up in are truly hilarious.
I Doubt I Have a Worthy Addition
I fell in love with this genius concept through the television adaptation.
Taika Waititi is a singular voice. Every time I encounter his song, I cannot but stop and listen.
Best vampire movie in years!
I have been a fan of all horror films for over 50 years now and this is one of the funniest, best acted, and now a part of my "Best Loved Films"collection! I highly recommend this film to everyone who enjoys Vampires and Comedy! The script was so well written and so well played by the actors that you really start to believe that Vampires have to go through the same daily crap that the rest of us do. From Peter's skeletal remains in the basement, to the dishes not being done in 5 years!! Running into the Werewolves and having a little scrap on a Saturday night was like the Jocks and the Stoners meeting up behind the High School on Prom night!! There is so much to this film that you have to watch it at least once a week just to see if there was anything you may have missed. I found that doing this never stopped me laughing even though I know what's next! Do your self a favor and watch this movie, you will be glad you did!!
Absolutely amazeballs
This movie is epic! Witty, cringe, clever and brilliant entertainment.
Such a creative and imaginative film, how films should be.
This film is fun-dead!
I never really was a fan of vampires until I stumbled upon this film in the TV Guide. This film is just so funny and out here, the Twilight films sucked the coolness out of vampires and this replaced that coolness with a pint of comedy.
Film Crew on Vampires
This what you get when you mix film crew format,vampires and well written comedy.
The Best Mockumentary I've Ever Seen
endearing as hell!!!!!
Brilliant...
I love a mocumentary style comedy. I also love Vampire movies. I was hoping that this would be well done. I should never have doubted. It's almost perfect. The character studies are almost genius. The backstories. The nuances. The sets. And it's hilarious. Brilliant.
Extremely funny
This perfectly cast mock-doc never sags in its wit and forward momentum. I laughed all the way through and I believe it is one of my all-time favourite comedies.
I'm flabbergasted
Peak comedy, absolutely loved it! The jokes are so smart and while the plot may be simple, it mixes up vampires and all that to the real world easily, making you cry-laughing in the process.
Best film ever made.
I loved it
I absolutely love Vampire movies but when mingled with comedy they can be quite cheesy....This was not cheesy!!! And i love how it captured the issues of vintage vampires in modern times
Proper Vampire, Tyrant Vampire, 18 century bambi Vampire, and the very old Vampire
All i can say is this movie is much more worth watching than Twilight Saga.
Enjoyable
Definitely one of the more unique and interesting vampire films out there.
The writers did a fantastic job with the main characters. Each feels distinct from one another and their respective actors did a fantastic job bringing them to life, adding tons of personality and charm. The side cast also did great. There's many interviews throughout the film adding a lot of welcomed 'intermissions' where further depth is given to the characters.
The documetry style of filming also added a lot of charm to the film lending to some nice comedic moments and a general feeling of fun.
Bloody hilarious!
I'm just getting around to watch this on Prime Video for the first time having LOVED the TV spin off on FX and the BBC.
This is where it all began, and to see Taika Waititi before he directed and starred in Thor Ragnarok and JoJo Rabbit is pretty cool.
Very funny and very well imagined, but I have to say TV is a better format and if you even remotely liked this, you need to watch the TV show.
Robot Chicken + Borat+ The Office= Dead But Delicious!
I didn't know what to think going into this movie. I had gone in completely blind. Never read a review or even saw a trailer before watching this movie. I was dying 5 minutes into this film.
I love films like this that just have fun, and we seriously need more films in this fashion. It reminded me of Borat throughout the entire movie, it just had a very similar tone and feel to it. But it also felt like the kind of segment you would find in Robot Chicken. Combine that with humor styles from The Office, and you have one hell of a funny mockumentary.Don't go into this movie expecting a plot, it is not that kind of film, and it's not suppose to be.
A glorious mockumentary
"New Zealand Director Taika Waititi delivers together with his longtime partner a very fresh take on the vampire genre." Thats the last thing Mr. Waititi would like to read about this feature. It is so much more. Foremost it's a hilarious comedy with a very unique Style. Its not a horror film or anything the title might suggest. Waititi once said in an interview at the festival de Cannes, that they just tried to make it as funny as possible. And the amazing thing is that it doesn't feel like some one is trying to hard to be funny. Its a very well balanced firework of subtle gags. It captures you from the start. Not because of its suspense but with its great atmosphere, characters and especially because you will think "what the **** am I watching" but in a good way. A very good way.
what a breath of fresh putrid air!
Brainy comedy at it's finest! A rare gem. Obviously an act of love. You don't get this kind of brilliance unless it's driven by absolute commitment. The acting is inspired, pitch perfect. Never doubted the characters for a moment. The dialogue is genius. It feels so natural that it's impossible to tell what's improvised and what's scripted. Never wanted to hang out in New Zealand with the undead until I saw this! If you like dark humor with a bunch of undead monsters you wanted to room with in college you need to check it out.
This movie is clearly not big budget but in the best possible way. Thank Goodness! The sets and the special effects were beautiful, intriguing, engrossing, but not distracting.
One of my absolute favourites!
I have watched this movie at least 10 times since my friends first introduced me too it, and it still hasn't gotten old! If you love weird funny movies you need to give this a watch.
I loved the mockumentary style and I felt like it really added to the kind of humour the movie has, the characters were perfect, and there wasn't a scene where I didn't laugh at least once. Taika Waititi is BRILLIANT!
I would say I'm recommending it to all of my friends, but I've already shown it to pretty much everyone I can think of! It gets an easy 10/10 from me.
Best of worst
Again another movie with 7 star rating that was supposed to be awesome but turned out to be painfully boring. I can't believe people have such a terrible taste in movies they even rated it 9/10 stars. I just couldn't find it funny at all. It was like watching a live comedy drama on stage where you pretend you're enjoying since you paid for it. I find it funny that some people actually enjoyed this movie.
Great new zealand mockumentary
This film is hilarious. Taika Waititi and Jemaine Clement did a superb job both directing and acting in this mockumentary about vampires in Wellington. The other actors, especially Jonny Brugh were also great. The music is really good aswell. What can I say other than I highly enjoyed this movie?
Brilliant!
This mockumentary about four vampires sharing a house in Wellington, NZ is one of the funniest films I've seen in years. At first I was skeptical. When I read the storyline it sounded dreadful; unoriginal, too similar to "Being Human", so I put off watching it. Then, after a couple of friends recommended it, I thought I'd give it a chance. I'm so glad I did. It was hilarious, and the dialogue and delivery is spot on. It captures the documentary "look" perfectly too. I think "What We Do in the Shadows" is to vampire movies what "Shaun of the Dead" is to zombie flicks. It's brilliant.
Glimpses of genius.....
Throughout the entire film. The film was quirky thoughout & amusing, but there were moment of pure genius that made me LOL and that doesn't happen often.
A must see, really.
Not all the comedy is in the trailer
I was very disappointed by Talladega Nights as every funny line from the entire movie was in the trailer, so I was a little hesitant to watch this film based on that. But, the premise was intriguing so I gave it a shot, and I'm glad I did. There are maybe 4-5 really laugh-out-loud moments, but these vampires really do show some heart and personality. If you liked Tucker and Dale Fight Evil (or you you like the trailer and the kiwi humor/accent), check it out. It gave the vampires individual personalities, one of whom was quite sweet-hearted.
And if you don't like it, it was only 86 minutes (which you may or may not remember, depending on if you watch to the end of the credits ;-)))
Brilliant!
Amazing houmor, smart and light:) Perfect soundtrack, outstanding performances! Will be my favourite movie for some time 100%:)
Absolutely awesome!
This is a great comedy and I will definitely watch it again and again. I am so happy that I discovered it. The acting is great, the characters are great, and the humor is just hilarious. I think that to enjoy this movie one doesn't even need to be a fan of the vampire theme. This is a piece of a good entertainment and catches the viewer attention from the very first seconds. Absolutely fabulous, not predictable when it shouldn't be, and memorable comedy for people of all age. I highly recommend watching it and I wish there was a sequel:) I put it on the list of my favorite comedies along with the Shaun of the Dead and Tucker and Dale vs. Evil. When I think of this movie, I am smiling:)
Fantastic Satire
Better lovestory than Twilight
This film is pretty great. Although it starts out fairly slow, the performances and comedy we're great. Being a mockumentary gives this movie a lot more freedom to do what it wants, and even though there is no specific plotline to the story I never felt bored. I do have a few problems with this movie concerning some small pacing or plot convenience problems but it is never anything that can take away your enjoyment of the film. If you like vampires or the concept of a comedy driven mockumentary about vampires I would say give it a watch.
Grinning forever!
This is easily one of the funniest movies I've seen in a while. I have watched it 3 times already and it has only increased my appreciation for the acting and the whole story line. I put this in the category of some of the best of Christopher Guest (Spinal Tap, Best in Show). It's a treat knowing there are young people out there who have a great sense of the absurd and that they are getting the opportunity to share gems like this with the rest of us.I can just imagine how much fun they must have had even writing this story. It's hard to pick my favourite character because everyone seems to have taken their roles seriously and put forth a very good performance. I suppose, however, that a straight man like Stu would stand out as one of the best.
Even if you're not into "humorous Horror" you have to see this one!
I don't even know where to start with this one. In almost every horror movie post you'll read that I'm not very fond of the "Blair Witchy" type of filmography because I feel it's just over done these days, regardless this movie had me on the floor. Frankly when I'm reaching for a horror movie humor is the furthest thing I'm in the mood for. I usually read reviews before watching and didn't with this one. If I had I more than likely would have passed this one up, and what a shame that would have been.
It's like watching "The Office"
It's awkward funny, it's uncomfortable at times but in a good way and it's got that "casual funny" piece of scripting haha a solid mockumentary.
Bloody Hilarious!
This film has been done in a mockumentary format as it attempts to demystify vampires. These vampires are not mysterious, luxurious and dripping with sexiness. They have real emotions, weaknesses and quirks. It's got the low budget feel to it - the hand held camera, the poor lighting, the rundown sets - but the special effects are really well done. That makes the whole thing look pretty realistic. And it is packed with some pretty unexpected laughs. The film had me grinning the entire time and also had lots of laugh out loud moments, and I am not someone who is easily amused. It's not just the jokes that are funny, but maybe you will notice some weird detail in the background that will make you crack up. It doesn't really have a story, it's more like a journey of getting to know a few vampires like never before. I know for sure that this is going in my comedy staple collection.
Unexpected fun and originality
Bored
I felt bored, and this is a comedy.
The jokes were mildly amusing, but didn't get an actual laugh out of me. The stunts were pretty cool, but the gore effects looked incredibly cheesy. Perhaps that's part of the comedy, but it didn't work for me.
Funniest Movie Ever!
This is the funniest movie I have ever seen. Highly recommended!!! You will have non-stop laughing from beginning to end.
Very original and laughable
Very original film about vampires sharing a flat (filmed like a documentary) . I've seen it three time, one in the theater, another one at home with my parents and again with friends. I still laughed the last time. Great indeed. The quality of the special effects are pretty cool too. One of the best "geeky" (spanish "friki", I'm not sure how to translate it in this context) movies out there.
Stu, we love you!!
Well worth it!
After being bugged by my co-worker for months I finally sat down and watched this movie. I was not disappointed. Having grown up watching vampire shows and movies I really enjoyed this mockumentary. The peek inside the lives of these vampires is just the absurdity I needed.
I don't get why this movie note is only 7.6
Honestly, I'm not a big fan of movies. They're just so long, so I usually avoid them, try to watch 20 minutes TV shows, sometimes 45 minute, but movies, ugh, they're, like, 2 hours, I hate them. So I saw this movie on tumblr, I saw a bunch of gifs and though it was kind of funny and cute, so I googled it, found it in here and saw that there was only one hour and twenty-five minutes, and I thought that that was a good time for a movie. And you know, I didn't see the time pass, it was so fast, and I really wish it was longer, or that it had a sequel. The documentary style is what makes it so good I guess, the suddenly realization in the middle of the movie that there is a camera man there. I mean, the characters are so funny, the actors play their roles so well, the vampires are so different and even Petyr, an eight thousand years old vampire, is kind of cute. I truly love this movie, and I guess people just don't give it enough credit for being a comedy, even though it's really well made, and being different from those stupid parody movies of vampires with nonsense jokes. I could watch it a thousand times without getting tired. For me this is truly a comedy masterpiece.
Interview with vampire OFFICE.
I dont usually give 10/10 to films. Alien(1979) is 10/10 because it revolutionized the horror genre. LOTR Trilogy is 10/10 because its one of the best media in the world. What We Do in the Shadows also gets 10/10 because it was something I never seen before in Comedy.
The life of 3 vampires , a camera crew documenting their mundane activities like cleaning the house and paying rent , however things get interesting as a few guests come over.
I recently watched this mockumentary , and compared to several other that I have watched. This one is beyond amazing. Jemaine Clement and Taika Waititi are still impressing with their work. The distinct characters of the vampires are hilarious. Many have been saying that it is mundane and lacks a thickened plot , however I saw that such an unfamiliar thing to document , such as vampires , doing such mundane activities is what added to this work. The elements of a documentary are very well done , and the "historical" pictures showing the vampires lives are amazing. From Viago , to Nick , to Peter , each character had me laughing and not wanting to end this whole experience. Overall, this movie was creative , hilarious , genius , and Jemaine Clement and Taika Waititi are still impressing with their ongoing works of true art. I highly recommend this movie to anyone wanting a laugh.
Perfection
There is nothing I can nitpick that is wrong with this brilliant offering from Taika Waititi. Casted brilliantly, amazing directorship, a bouquet of proper good humour... 👌 My favourite movie in a long time! These are comedic visionaries.
Thumbs up if you like Biskety
Initial thoughts? "Oh no, not another one of those unnecessary Dracula movies. Like most of these, this one will probably go straight to DVD and end up with a 3,4 score on IMDb".
But what a surprise: What We Do in the Shadows is one hell of a movie. Everything about it pulls you straight in: the small details, every new character that is introduced, the story as a whole. Almost immediately, we re-watched it twice with friends and I re-watched it once by myself. Now that doesn't happen often...
At the moment that I write this review, the score is 7,6. Not far off, but it deserves even a bit more. And that for a Dracula-style movie... Hats off. So thumbs up if you like Biskety!
Loved It
I watched this thinking it was a film. I put it on to fall asleep to and ended up watching the whole thing and giggling away. I didn't realise it was a mockumentary until I began watching. I thought the story line was great and upon watching a second time I noticed a lot of other jokes I didn't get the first time around. It has to be the funniest film I've seen in ages! There is a bit of awkward humour like The Office so if u like that then u will probably enjoy this. Keep in mind it's not serious- it's about vampire flatmates being followed by cameras to see their day to day life. I think the less someone knows about this film the better it is.
On a side note, I wish people would stop attacking others for liking films they don't in their reviews. If you do this- f*cking rap it in.
Beyond Brilliant
I won't say anything further as it's best watched clean and and fresh!
Funny.
I thought this movie was hilarious. I only watched it because I had nothing else to watch and was surprised.
Comedies are always such an up in the air type of thing. I will say that I enjoyed it and wish I wouldn't have waited so long to watch it.
I liked the generic look of the make up and costumes, I thought it just made it funnier and worked better for the movie than them trying to take a serious approach to the monsters. It is after all a comedy and not a horror film. I didn't expect much as far as the special effects go and they were terrible. The wolf suits cracked me up because they were just so over the top cheap.
Hidden gem of a movie
I have to tell you, I have not laughed this hard in a long time. What a great movie! The concept is hilarious & I love how the characters interact and how they are all different "types " of vampires from popular culture. The writing had me in stitches. "Vampires don't but down towels first". The whole werewolf, witch, vampire etc subculture is hilarious. Like rival gangs between vampires & werewolves so so funny. Granted this kind of movie isn't for everyone but if you like a mockumentarylook no further!
Quirky and dry, but still enjoyable
When I heard this film described as a "horror-comedy", I expected something in the vein of "Shaun of the Dead" or possibly the "Scream" franchise. What I got instead was this odd little mockumentary about vampires going about their daily (nightly?) lives while trying to sustain their existence surreptitiously. The film does suffer from some uneven pacing issues as well as dry humor that may not appeal to everyone, but I found the film ultimately enjoyable despite the fact that there may have been New Zealand-specific jokes and/or references lost on me. If you enjoy vampires, mockumentaries, and/or quirky independent films, go ahead and give this film a look.
waititi at his finest
Relentless Comedy
In my over 12 plus years on IMDB I've never written a review. And I know comedy is subjective to the viewer. But It is very rare to find a movie like this. Perfect is a word I'd use to describe it. In the end, the only problem with this entertainment is that you could watch it forever. We could follow these characters for every moment of their lives and you'd still love it. 10/10 Brilliant
It sucked. Worse than an episode of My mother the car.
Waste of 85 minutes of your life. Waste of 85 minutes of your life. Waste of 85 minutes of your life. Waste of 85 minutes of your life.
I LOOOOVE this movie!
I loved this movie and have watched it several times.
I laughed several times before the opening credits, and that type of humor is the humor throughout. If you appreciate Modern Family, you will likely appreciate this movie. It has a similar type of style and humor.
This is one of my all-time favorite movies. Soooooo funny!
Absolutely hilarious!
What huge surprise that we stumbled across this movie! So clever and original with so many scenes and lines remembered long after. One of the best comedies we have seen. Others have described the plot and characters, but all I can say is watch this wonderful film!
one of my top comedy
Great seance of hummer and sarcasm not every one can get it, effortlessly funny and entertaining ,you just need to watch it with friends who have the same seance of hummer
Great movie for a Friday night with popcorn and some friends.
Very funny and original
Extremely funny, subversive and Smart.Nothing to do with the usual vampire stories (romantic or thrillers), this movie is really hilarious and original. It reminded me of Shaun of the Dead which was equally - if not more - original and funny, and which was also not the usual Hollywood -blockbuster kind of movie. In 'what we do in the shadows, although the actors are not well known, the production seems to be low budget, the result is excellent in my opinion mainly because of intelligent dialogs and brilliant ideas. I would suggest it to anyone wishing to see a vampire movie with a completely different approach on the subject and in a completely different environment.
Vakey Vakey
The funniest film I have seen in years! I think this movie hinges on your sense of humour, watched this with my girlfriend and she didn't laugh once............trust me this film is class! Very clever film and brilliant acting, there's probably something that makes me laugh every 2 or 3 minutes. The 'swearwolves' are brilliant and Stu the most laid back human/ vamp middle man is class.
Seeing the front cover I did sadly assume this was going to be an over the top 'try to hard' mockumentary with obvious gags, but couldn't have been further from the truth
Have seen this 4 times now, there is always something different which I notice and it gets better every time!!!
A MUST WATCH
Seriously...one of the funniest movies I have ever seen.
People reading, please do me a favor- If you don't get deadpan comedy. Please don't ever watch this movie. We don't want to hear it. Clearly you have no soul and we need to stay away from people like you.
I cannot emphasis how funny and original I thought this movie was. It puts me in complete giggle fits. I have actually made my own meme about it. I wish that there were more comedies that put this much attention to detail. Because that is the magic of the film, actually having to hear the joke and get it.
And, I'm pretty sure I have a huge crush on Taika Waititi (don't tell me husband). Besides, it doesn't matter- his Viago is into to older chicks ;)
A great mock documentary film consisting of vampires and their lifestyle.
Did you ever wanted to be a vampire? Had fantasies of sucking the crap out of beautiful women with your sharp and pointy canines? What their lifestyle could be and all that stuff? Then you came to the right movie to watch, so sit back and enjoy this silly-fest of a movie. With an excellent prod. design, quirky sense of humour and artful rendition of the life of vampires, this movie could be the most funniest movie/documentary about vampires of all time. Throw your preconceived notions of vampires, brainwashed into your head by Twilight-like movies, into mental dustbin and just comprehend this movie. 1 star removed for killing a beautiful woman who just wanted to get her degree and travel round the world.
An Absolute Classic
I first watched this film because my sister had mentioned it. I honestly did not have a clue what to expect, but my god, i am so glad i watched it. This film is absolutely brilliant and the comedic genius behind the film is just so incredible. This film is a 'mock- umentary' which follows the life of 4 vampires and how they get along in their flatting situation. Vladislav, one of the main characters is perfectly portrayed by Jemaine Clement (Flight of the Conchords, The BFG), all of his lines are expressed in such a tone that you cant help but fall in love with his wit and personality. Viago, portrayed by Taika Waititi (dir. Thor:Ragnarok), is again, expressed and acted in such a way that the comedic brilliance of the entire script just flows.
This ingenious movie is one of my favorites and i 100% would recommend to anyone who has a good sense of humour, however, if you do not 'get' this movie, then I feel as though you may be reading in to it too much. Just watch and enjoy the film at face value and don't try and search for a deeper meaning, otherwise you will end up with nothing, apart from struggle.
This film is marvelous and i do not understand how it is not more well known, this film needs to be boosted, for it is an incredible movie with undeniably brilliant scripting and characters.
Please watch this movie as i can guarantee you will not be disappointed.
Pretty Darn Cooooool.
This is a killERRR flick. This is a killERRR flick. This is a killERRR flick.
Must keep making more shows
Hello, I just watched "What we do in the shadows", and I don't remember when I laughed so hard I was in tears. Those guys are awesome actors, the whole storyline/documentary style way they put it together was pure genius, very clever. I didn't want it to end, great writers. The world needs more comedy like this, I hope you'll continue these guys in a weekly series, I know it would be a hit, #1 in the ratings, please let me know. Again, great job guys, Mary from Phoenix. 10/28/2020
So good it should be on TV
Take the mockumentary comedy The Office put it in 80ies cult flatmate sitcom The Young Ones, add some Bad Taste splatter and dash it with all the troubles of vampires' lives that you have not thought about and you get the character driven movie What We Do in the Shadows. From the awkward, but sympathetic 1700-century vampire Viago, to the desperately misplaced non-dead computer geek Stu that befriends the vampires, the characters all in their own way suck you into the world of old fashioned vampires in a modern New Zealand. The characters are so cleverly created and acted out that one and a half hour is far from enough time. This comedy/mockumentary really cries for someone to pick it up and carry it on as TV-series.
Amazing Movie
I started watching because I was watching the TV show. Then I realized there was a movie which was made before it. My goodness it was an amazing movie. It has the same humor that they use in the show so if you aren't a fan of the show then probably don't watch. The humor is dark but funny. I think the type of humor is ghastly.
Awesome movie
One of my favorite movies ever. I just love how everyone involved had so much fun and creativity.
"Werewolves not Swearwolves" Funniest Vamp film since The Fearless Vampire Killers
I am in disbelief at the vacuous fluoride damaged wastes of food and air who say this isn't that funny down below. Ignore them. This is the best comedy/black humour film I've seen in years. About to watch it again just to take in the silly details. What excellent casting...fantstically creative sets. Really good use of a low budget production with typical Kiwi creativity...and the writing is slightly rippled with a flat underside (that's English ironic code for tasty, addictive and totally excellent) I'm gonna check out the TV series after I've launched my business. So by spring time...when the sun is high and these pesky vamps can't get me. Taika, you have real flair both in front of the camera but also behind it as Director. You are one dead funny dead guy brother, and I can't wait to see what you do with The Incal. You proved yourself with a high budget on Ragnarok so I really think the right director was chosen for the Incal. Jodo would have made it way too psychedelic and experimental but I have a real gut feeling you are gonna get the balance right brother. Thank you so much for this. I laughed the scamdemic away and you've inspired me to pick up a couple of my dormant writing projects...so may the Incal bless you.
Cringe
The movie isn't funny at all. The acting and "jokes" are cringey as hell. The movie tried too hard to be funny. Taika Waititi is a horrible actor and has an inflated sense of self worth. He things he's far funnier than he actually is. I can't believe people actually greenlit anything he made. Dude is a hack. One of the worst people to every find success. Completely undeserved.
Underrated and more should see this movie
An amazing movie in the indie style. It plays homage to traditional comedy as well as traditional horror. Each cast member exceeded Expectation for a glorious romp through the lives of vampires in modern society
Brilliant comedy
Awesome movie, hilarious comedy! Taika is an amazing storyteller!
Vampire movie meets reality TV Docucomedy
First reaction after watching "What we do in the shadows" was: I have to watch it again and share it with everyone I know! With Low expectations prior to watching on a recommendation from a co-worker this film was an awesome surprise. Has been one of my favorites from the past few years. The idea for the film being about Vampires who live among us and them being filmed for a documentary was brilliant. The diary sessions aren't over done and really add to the characters. The comedy never lets up and allot is missed on the first watch. No worries though, You'll definitely watch it again and again. The Directors/Producers/Stars of the film Jemaine Clement & Taika Waititi really put everything into their characters and their film. A Job well done. 10 out of 10!
The Best Vampire Movie Out There
As close to perfect this kind of movie can be. Great comedy in a unique style and an excellent use of the "mockumentary style" type of filming. The actors are very comfortable in theur roles.
It's well worth your time, I promise.
Funny movie...Funnier if you get the jokes
I'm not really a fan of documentary / mockumentary-like movies, it makes me sleep. At first I thought that it's another lame movie about vampires but then, just at the opening scenes, I got myself chuckling already. As I was watching it, it built me an interest on how vampires could live in this modern-day world, and this movie really fed my curious imagination. The jokes are really planted well on every line and the punchlines are really hilarious, and the best part is that each actor was able to carry his in- movie character. This is not a comedy movie of obvious physical pranks or any lame stupid lines of jokes. When you watch this movie, you're gonna laugh really good. But it's funnier if you had a wider opened-mind and you get the jokes right. Really worth watching with family and friends!
Absolutely Awesome!
You pretty much have to watch it more than once to fully appreciate it. A lot of thought and went into direction, acting AND the writing. This movie WILL be at the least a "cult" classic. I would be willing to bet the actors had a great time of it for sure. And it shows. I would love to see a sequel with the boys coming into the 21st century using the knowledge that Stu taught them- ie: Going to the beach first time (discovering spf, finding out who cheeped out(bought the lowest to save money)- Or Vlad finds out the real "Beast" works at the DMV(and his hypnotis does not work passing DMV test(Department of Motor Vehicles) Viago- does he finally meet his "fussy" match- how does he deal with it?
So good
I was recommended this movie from a podcast HDTGM, but this wasn't part of the podcast just one Paul Scheer's Picks of the Week. The podcast, HDTGM, is about bad movies that shouldn't ever have been made and how they actually did. Sorry went a little off topic, this movie is extremely clever and funny. It is mockumentary following a group of vampires that live together in a small flat. Jemaine Clement, Jonny Brugh, and Taika Waititi play vampires and Rhys Darby plays a werewolf and they all are so good. It can be a bit slow so if you don't like dry comedy this isn't a movie for you. I highly suggest this movie to anyone who liked Flight of the Conchords
If there was a funnier movie in the last 10 years, I really want to know what it was.
Holy Grail is of course the Holy Grail of all comedies (and comedies being harder than drama, it is therefore the best movie of all time. Well obviously.) but this nears that level of eliteness.
First half hour is cute and chuckles. After that, it is hold-your- gut- so-it-doesn't-explode hilarious.
OK, they want more sentences. The encounter with the werewolves is really fun.
My favorite quotes include: "Last time I saw my ex, she impaled me, and she called me an a**hole, and she really hurt my feelings."
"We're werewolves, not swear-wolves!".
Anyway, watch it.
Taika is the best
A fantastically (no pun there) funny mocumentary made by the brilliant taika waititi, watch if you want to call yourself a fan of comedy
Great
Not many movies can make me laugh. This one did. Great dry humor mockumentary. Will definitely watch again down the road.
Genuinely funny and creative
If you're wondering whether to watch it or not, you should definitely watch it.
I usually don't watch horror movies, but this movie being classified horror-comedy, and most importantly being a waititi movie, I decided to watch it. And just 10-15 minutes into the movie, I was hooked up. The casting, acting, cinematography were perfect, and most importantly the dialogues were super funny, and I found them to be uniquely creative. The mockumentary style editing and cutting between scenes is very cleverly done, and I heard waititi and the crew took almost 14 months (waititi mentioned it in some interview but I'm not entirely sure whether its 14) to edit the movie.
There may be some scenes showing a lot of blood, but they are also made hilarious. Do not watch this for its plot, the plot is not super twisty or anything. But overall the movies is enjoyable, and you should 100% watch it.
GREATEST DrOCU-MOVIE ON EARTH
I saw WWDITS series a few months back and got enlightened on the greatest series on earth. Now that I found this movie source, I've just watched the greatest vampire movie ever made.
What We Do in the Shadows 2020 review
Fun movie, has some good moment. Nothing that will probably have you on the floor laughing. But entertaining
This movie sucks so bad and that isn't supposed to be a pun.
Contrived, predictable drivel. Avoid, save your money and time.
Very funny, anyone see the original?
Loved every minute of this movie. But it pains me to see that nobody seems to know something similar was made in Belgium 4 years before. It's in French and cashed Vampires.
Genius
Best comedy I've seen in the last 10 yrs. So smart and the cast is absolutely brilliant
Hilarious
Best comedy I've seen in a long time. Love the cast. Would love to see a sequel. This is by far one of my favorite comedies
Fangtastically Hysterical!
What we do in the Shadows is a film i heard about a while ago, I saw the trailer and knew it had a great deal of potential but was a film that I knew had to be seen to decide whether I could truly see it as a great comedy. Going into the film it is best to know as little as possible because it is such a surprise and such a pleasure to watch that nothing can be spoiled. The plot follows a group of vampires who share a flat and have a documentary crew follow them around as they try to adjust to everyday life despite being undead creatures of the night. The premise is one that we have seen, the oddball or group of oddballs are taken from one scenario to the other and have to adjust to a different lifestyle, but to tackle this in a mockumentary format with mythical creatures we have all heard of before is something completely new and it works better than most recent comedies have. There are some truly side-splitting scenes that had me laughing out loud. There is something genuinely hysterical about seeing these vampires do household chores and attempt to get into nightclubs which really makes me want to see more comedy like this. I found the circle of shame particarly funny. There are also a fair few twists and turns along the way, we get zombies and werewolves.. and these twists turn this from an ordinary mockumentary into something very special indeed. There are scenes where the comedy may run dry or it will go on for a little too long, but in the end this film pays off and it is nothing short of fun and is incredibly enjoyable. Some people may not "get" the style of comedy used which is fine, but for me it was original and the funniest film for a while. Definitely worth a watch, especially if you're wondering what vampires get up to when you're sleeping.
Hilarious
Low budget comedy gold, this is one of the funniest movies I've seen in a long time. The different personalities of all the flatmates drive some fantastic situation comedy. Basically these guys are all stunted at a maturity level somewhere in their 20's and they are vampires, and the jokes just play with that. "The Beast" is a running joke with a great payoff, won't spoil it but it was unexpected for me. This is the kind of movie where the low budget works in its favor, buckets of obviously fake blood and stiff costumes just make everything funnier. Definitely recommended.
Do you like basketti?'
Okay, so maybe it's not a true horror film, but I'll rate it, anyway. Seems like the newest, hottest trend is the horror/comedy mix - It's been around for a long time, but it's really starting to catch fire again. 'What We Do in the Shadows' is one of the funniest comedies I've seen in the last two years. I've read a lot of reviews from people claiming it's not 'laugh out loud funny,' but I can recall laughing my ass off throughout the entire film - and when it comes to comedies, I can probably name ten I've seen in my lifetime, that accomplished that. Needless to say, it's not my favorite genre, thanks to mostly recycled garbage, fart humor. Although, I am ashamed to admit, I love the 'Jackass' series. Random Ramblings of a Madman: Jemaine Clement, Taika Waititi are really onto something - but I almost hope it doesn't go any further, because even though I consider it 'laugh out loud funny,' I'd be shocked if they're able to accomplish this for another film or two. Oh, and why the hell did you guys kill off Petyr?
The chore wheel, trying to get past bouncers, and improving household safety - life is tough for vampires
What comes to mind when you hear the words "New Zealand"? If you are thrilled by the overstated, perhaps director Peter Jackson springs to mind; he is rather popular. But fans of the understated may well favour Flying Nun Records, The Chills, Split Enz or New Zealand's greatest comic export - Flight of the Conchords. Fans of Flight of the Conchords will rejoice at the arrival of What We Do in the Shadows, an awkwardly named but highly acclaimed horror comedy / mockumentary. Flight of the Conchords cast an absurd, often surreal look at the day-to-day activities of two flat-sharing New Zealanders trying to make it in New York's music scene; the deliberate misspelling of "Conchords" suggests that each chord is part of an absurd musical con. What We Do in the Shadows casts a similar eye on the daily mundanities of misfit vampires sharing a flat. The film stars Jemaine Clement and Rhys Darby. The omission of fellow Conchord Bret McKenzie (now an Academy Award winning composer) is somewhat alleviated by the addition of Taika Waititi, who wrote and directed some Conchords episodes. Recent interviews with Clement suggest a Conchords reunion is more likely than Peter Jackson directing a sequel to his Meet the Feebles - a twisted take on the Muppets. Apparently, a Flight of the Conchords reunion tour, featuring new material, is a possibility for late 2015. The Holy Grail for die-hard fans - the Flight of the Conchords movie musical - is still being discussed. Despite the tired mockumentary structure, What We Do in the Shadows succeeds via comic DNA inherited from the Conchords. Shared traits include juxtaposition of the mundane with the fantastic; droll, deadpan delivery; and a genuine affection for naive, somewhat innocent outsiders and eccentrics trying to make it in an alien environment. The latter may stem from the perception of New Zealanders - as satirized on the Conchords - as isolated, struggling for significance and behind the times. Of course, New Zealand really is isolated, which probably explains why Clement and Waititi's humour usually revolves around outsiders trying to assimilate into a new environment. However, their shared affection for outsiders may also be attributed to their part-Maori upbringing, affording them unique perspectives on the land and the people around them. In Shadows, the eccentric outsiders are flatmates Viago, Deacon, and Vladislav - three vampires trying to make it in the modern metropolis of Wellington, New Zealand. They face a variety of seemingly insurmountable hurdles including paying rent, adhering to the chore wheel, trying to get past bouncers, and improving household safety. Lesser trials and tribulations include being immortal, feasting on human blood and battling fashion-challenged werewolves. Further trouble arises when flatmate Petyr, the old-school Nosferatu of the group, turns unreliable hipster Nick into a vampire; it's up to the guys to show him how to be a proper vampire, while not attracting attention to their existence. Nick's human friend, Stu, challenges the vampire's world view; in a key scene, they decide not all humans are bad (only 98% of us are no good) and fight to protect him from other bloodsuckers. The film has been met with almost unanimous critical praise, and it's not difficult to see why. It's the quiet, understated moments that really shine - and there are many of them. Clement, in particular, is in fine form; his slow, careful approach - favouring silence over ostentation - combined with his smooth, deadpan Transylvanian delivery kept me chuckling. On the other hand, some attempts to build up to more elaborate comic payoffs fell into cliché and obviousness; for example, a costume ball for the living dead didn't live up to its potential. To some degree, these minor concerns are due to the over-familiar mockumentary format. A few minor quibbles aside, this is a must-see for fans of quirky comedy and, needless to say, for fans of Flight of the Conchords ... "It's business. It's business time."
Amusing, wry satire
Great movie! It's clever, wry satire of modern life's foibles and challenges through the experiences of a bunch of slightly goofy vampires. Taika Waititi is an adorably batty genius, a great writer and actor. I love the deadpan tone and bursts of outright silliness in this movie.
Awful movie
I love horror comedies, even a lot of the trashiest ones generally. Buth this was sooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooo bad. I watched the whole thing, actively trying to like it but it was quite bad. If you just wanna blindly like whatever the masses or the critics want to like, go for it. Otherwise, save yourself some time and watch that next movie on your list. I don't usually hate horror movies (especially horror comedies) but this one was actually very very awful. I would much rather watch Suck... or even Stan Helsing (yes, this was that bad). F*** the haters.
A Very Funny Movie
This movie is a 'scream' from start to finish. I would compare it to The Office but with vampires, werewolves and zombies. It has a very clever script and all the actors do a great job at being straight- faced. I laughed out loud on many occasions because of its really well done gags on the vampire genre. This is a little gem and will be picked up by many. I hate vampire movies but this is a breath of fresh air from writers/directors Jemaine Clement, Taika Waititi. I think Hollywood will be calling on them because this is comic genius at work. Without doubt the best movie, for me, that New Zealand has produced. It was obvious to me that everyone had a great time making it. Comedy gold that leaves American comedy in the shadows.
Hilarious
Taika Waititi shines as a young director (now becoming world famous) and one of the main actors along with Jemain Clement (Flight of the Conchords) in this fantastic farce. They show how to create something memorable on a very low budget. Destined to be a cult classic, it certainly is one of my all-time favorites.
A great surprise
It's fun to give a movie you know nothing about a try and wind up genuinely entertained. That's what happened here. The film is hilarious.
Absolute must watch
I saw previews for the TV version of this and decided to watch this... So glad I did because this had me in stitches!!! I later found out the director also did Thor: Ragnarok, I hope to see much more from him
Taika Waititi and Jemaine Clement prove to us that New Zealand makes great movies
New Zealand makes a great movie...again. So far, I've only found 2 bad New Zealand movies. I think it's time we start making bad movies, New Zealand! But then again, we've made some terrible TV shows, so I guess that makes up for it...but anyway! This is a great mockumentary film that provides and guarantees great laugh-out-loud moments that will probably make you burst out on your couch laughing. This film is so good, it can be accepted as a Hollywood film set in New Zealand. This movie is great, and it is very hard not to like it. I'll keep this review short, however I will still describe a bit about how great this gem of a movie is, but I will also discuss about the flaws in the film. Let's get started on my review now, shall we? Taika Waiti has made some great movies provided, especially ones more for New Zealand viewers. However, he right now delivers a vampire comedy/mockumentary...that's set in New Zealand. It sounds bad, but believe me, it's not. This film is about three vampires called Viago, Deacon and Vladislav who are all hundreds of years old, trying to cope in real life as a normal figure. Unfortunately, that doesn't work when they're bloodsucking vampires with a thirst of blood! A documentary film crew makes a documentary about their life and how they live and adapt as vampires in the outside world and learn to cope with humans, werewolves, a wannabe vampire and paying their rent! That sounds like a great movie, doesn't it? Because, well, if it doesn't sound good, then I recommend you don't go watch it, because this is a more love-it-or-you-hate-it movie. Here's why. Although this is a great film, and I really, REALLY like it, werewolf fans may be a bit offended, because sometimes the werewolves are teased and made fun of in parts of the movie. That can be easily ignored, but still, it may offend sensitive viewers that are fans of werewolf movies. I, myself, do prefer werewolves than vampires, but the jokes didn't really bug me that much, so I'm pretty sure you'd be able to cope with them if I could. Although this didn't do great at the box office, it did go great on the review side, which is probably why they are now making a What We Do In The Shadows 2. Let's hope they don't insult werewolves in What We Do In The Shadows 2, am I right, werewolf fans? Also, let's talk about the violence in this film. This film is quite gory for a comedy. Even if most of the gory violence is done in an over the top comical matter, it may disgust some people that are eating popcorn in the film. I have seen way gorier, but if you go watching this, planning a film with barely any gore (like most New Zealand films) then you will most likely be disappointed, because this film is quite gory. But do take in mind that the violence is hilarious, too! The bit when the vampires mess up and hit the jugular is hilariously bloody, and it's a good laugh, that even if it's the goriest part in the film, it's really, really funny. If you can cope with a ton of blood spraying everywhere, I think you'll be fine and will enjoy the movie as much as I did. Okay, so I guess the review wasn't as short as I was planning, but it's still good enough to be called a review (I hope). I hope you now know whether this is your kind of movie or not, because it's definitely my kind of movie. It's fine if it's not your type, but even if it isn't, you may enjoy it anyway if you can cope with a bit of blood. This proves that New Zealand makes great films, and I do have to say, I was surprised that the rating on IMDb was lower than 8/10. Overall, I'd rate this a 8.3/10, and it also definitely deserves to be in the IMDb Top 250! 8.3/10!
And it was Peter!
This is a lovely little quirky mockumentary style film. Love the idea of three vampires sharing a flat together and going through an eternity of roommate struggles. I like how each of the four flatmates are essentially from four iconic time periods, and they play off each other very well (mainly three of them, as Peter is more introverted). Also the hidden society that comes into play later on is pretty funny as well. It is quite a fu
Accomplished vampire mockumentary
Version I saw: Grimm Up North festival screening Actors: 6/10 Plot/script: 7/10 Photography/visual style: 7/10 Music/score: 7/10 Overall: 7/10 Peter Jackson started two strings of Kiwi film: huge blockbusters, usually starring Americans, and micro-budget films, especially comedy or horror or both. What We Do In the Shadows, directed by Jemaine Clement (of Flight of the Conchords fame) and Taika Waititi, is one of the latter. I am a fan of Flight of the Conchords, the musical comedy duo, so it is fortunate from my perspective that the emphasis is very much on comedy rather than horror. Taking extraordinary things and putting them in a mundane context is a standard comedic method, and mockumentary is a style that harks right back to This Is Spinal Tap, so there is precedent here. Possibly too much precedent: some jokes I found to have been done before in other vampire comedies such as Dracula: Dead and Loving It and the more humorous parts of Buffy the Vampire Slayer. Still, there was plenty of originality to keep me entertained. Clement & Waititi's last film together, Eagle Vs. Shark, was a bit too 'quirky' for my taste, but What We Do had more than enough to laugh at as far as I am concerned. Each of the 5 central vampires gets their own sub-plot, which is wrapped up comfortably in a display of admirable screen writing balance, and there are some special effects tricks that are even more impressive for the way they slip by practically unnoticed. The downbeat nature of the film, deriving comedy from stripping away the atmosphere and style to expose the ridiculousness underlying it, is very much in Jemaine Clement's wheel-house, and he even gets a bit of musical fun in, although it is a far cry from Flight of the Conchords' witty parodies and catchy tunes. All in all, I laughed out loud plenty of times, and what more can you ask of a comedy?
Hilarious
One of the few movies that can actually make me laugh, great blend of horror and comedy. I love all of the character's, hard to pick a favorite but its probably the nosferatu looking guy. There is no reason not to watch this.
worst "something" (I don't even know if I can call it a movie) I've ever watched
Simply the unfunniest movie ever. Called a mockumentary, this is even worst than Borat. Just waste 1h25mn of my life watching this, and I went through it because of the movie's rate on IMDb plus the reviews; and never felt so regret. So, I don't know what people really appreciated watching this, I've read reviews of someone saying that watched it over 10 times in a week, I guess if I try to watch this again it would be suicide attempting by huge depression. I've really tried to laugh at something, believe me I really did, but wasn't able to do so. It starts extremely boring, and ends even more boring. Some force acting, some stupid attempting of making comedy, just have no words for it. This shouldn't be allowed to go public. Totally garbage!!!
Overrated
A plodding mockumentary following some Vampires in New Zealand.
It's not particularly interesting, and the violence and humour is simplistic.
This restores my hopes for the vampire genre.
This movie is perfect. If you enjoy horror and the macabre, but are also tired of the weird pop- culture argument between the Gothic vs sparkly vampires, then you will really enjoy this. It takes the mockumentary genre to a different extreme where vampires room together in the real world and try to make connections and friends just as we all do. It shows the daily struggle of four vampire friends who have found themselves rooming in a flat together and their daily activities. They also have the familiar werewolf enemies, done in their own amazing mocking way. The best part is that, although this movie is clearly a comedy mocking the vampire movies which have come before, it doesn't lack story, and still pays particular attention to the makeup and effects. It reminds me of Shaun of the Dead in that way. Recommended for any fan of vampires, comedies, and fringe-movies. This one really thinks outside the coffin.
Funniest movie of the year so far
I had a smile on my face the whole way through this move with a few belly laughs as well. In the beginning, I thought, maybe this is just another vampire spoof movie but it turned out to be so much more. This is truly a comedic work of art and I'm not quick to hand out such a compliment when it comes to comedies. Not only do I see it becoming a cult favorite but if it gets exposure into the mainstream it could become wildly popular through word of mouth. The acting was on another level, the writing was original and hilarious, and even the special effects were spot on. I feel great after watching this move. Give it a go and I'm sure you will too.
Bloody brilliant
This is a superb comedy. It was written, directed and performed brilliantly. If you don't laugh at this you are probably dead inside. I am at a loss for superlatives because there are not enough to elevate this work of comedic art to the pinnacle of entertaining cinema.
It has been done before, but this is funnier!
The premise of a mockumentary about vampires living together in a home in an urban environment is not new: the Belgian "Vampires" presented this to us back in 2010, also from a, somehow, humorous perspective. However, I found this 2014 movie funnier and, overall, better (from a comical P.O.V., at least). It has got nice special effects, used mostly for humorous purposes, and the actors speak English with a funny east-European accent, something "Vampires" missed (well, I guess, since they spoke French and all vampires seemed native...). So, "What We Do in the Shadows" is definitely not 100% original, but it contains more physical humour, more goofiness and overall more laughs than the 2010 release. And comedy is all this movie seems to aim for; mission accomplished!
A polarising movie... to me, just awful
I think this is a movie people will either absolutely love or absolutely hate. To me, unfortunately, it was the latter. The concept seems to be "a day in the life of a few suburban vampires in Wellington, New Zealand". It was kind of fun to see places I know on the movie screen, but that wore off pretty quickly. It's shot in the style of a bad B grade movie, which is really what it is... maybe it's C grade. The camera work probably came out just how they wanted it, in the style of one light on top of a camera. Visually it's not a great movie. The movie lacks a number of things... a plot, interesting characters, and interesting things happening. It was the worst movie I've seen this decade. If you love vampire movies, love bad B grade movies, and you know Wellington, you might enjoy this film. Others should approach with caution.
Funniest movie ever
Omg. I couldn't stop laughing. So well done. The acting is perfect.
One of the more enjoyable films in recent memory.
In just about every scene it had, this movie had me laughing. Each character brings, to the table, their unique traits and adds, throughout the film, a bevy of hilarious jokes. The use of horror monster "rules" from genre lore fits with the comedy incredibly well, and that is a testament to the film's writing. The use of the mockumentary format beautifully provides a connection between the characters and the viewer. One of my favorite filmmakers is Taika Waititi, and this is one of his best.
Funny but extremely gory...
I have been constant promos for the show adaptation and I finally decided to watch the original movie. I did not regret it one bit. Mockumentaries have always been my kryptonite, but this is totally different. I rarely watch anything horror, but this is mostly just gore. If vampires are in your movie, expect blood everywhere. I watched the movie on TV so I'm not sure if bits are cut. Highly recommend this hilarious but gory rollercoaster.
They pulled it off well, should have had a wider release
If you like say the Alan Partridge film, Spinal Tap, or British humor in general, or enjoy Walking Dead and True Blood and want to take a step back to realize how ridiculous it really is, consider watching this film. I myself am a die hard follower of both shows and thoroughly enjoyed this light comedy.
Filmed rather well for what I'm guessing was low budget, packed with original jokes and quotable punchlines, with a wide range of humor from dry to cheesy to gory to mocumentary style, this one deserved a wider release. I think if it was promoted in the US it would have done quite well, seems it did OK in Aussie's corner of the world.
I saw someone in the reviews say this movie doesn't have a plot. It actually does have a plot, a fairly good one too. Watch and enjoy. I've seen funnier and more enjoyable movies before but I'm giving this one a 10 for style, originality, acting quality, and effects on a lower budget.
One of the best comedies in recent years
This movie is so fresh and funny and one of the best comedies in recent years. It followed a mini movie and after this movie there was a TV series. The TV show has some funny moments but neither of these can be compred to the movie.
I truly recommend it
If the show Being Human were on MTV
-What We Do In The Shadows (2015) movie review: -What We Do In The Shadows is a comedy in the shape of a documentary about three friends, Viago, Deacon, and Vladislav, who are struggling through everyday life, because they are vampires. -A comedy that is about a documentary crew following vampires doing average vampire things, but completely seriously as if it were real? Yeah I'm all about that. -The story was great, and the fact that nothing is treated like it is a new thing for the audience was so smart. Things just happen and move on casually, like freak sunlight accidents. -The pace was mostly good, but I did feel like it had a slow wrap-up. -The acting was great. I don't know any of the actors, but they all did a convincingly good job. -The characters were really likable and funny, but also serious. Like introducing themselves as 600 years old, but being completely chill about it. Or having fights by flying. -I did not really care much for the music, but it was fittingly weird. -So more about this film that I just loved was that it was set in a world where everything that would be a big deal to anybody is just casual and treated so for the cameras in the film. They go to a party with zombies or make fun of werewolves. Or have trouble getting dressed because they can't see themselves in mirrors. -The films effects are also realistic and surprisingly not cheesy. -It does not have a rating, but I would say it would be a heavy PG-13 or light R. There's 2 F-words and some other mild language. There is some violence, but some of it is blurred. There is some suggestive material also, but either blurred or just not shown. -What We Do In The Shadows is a great example of how to make a satirical comedy so entertaining and original. It is like if the show Being Human were on MTV. Best way I can think to describe it. And that said, What We Do In The Shadows is totally worth checking out! (Would be worth seeing in theaters, but it is in limited release, so worth seeing at theater price I guess)
What We Do in the Shadows
What is missing from a lot of comedies these days is visual comedy. The YouTube channel "Every Frame A Painting" did a video on Edgar Wright perfectly explaining this, and using this as a reason why Edgar Wright is the smartest comedy director currently out there. Basically, thanks in no small part to Judd Apatow, most of the comedies of the past 10 years have basically been mostly comedic improv on screen, and even if it is scripted that is an accurate description of what it feels like. And even when they do improv the actors aren't skilled enough to portray the unique, hilarious characters in films such as "Best in Show" and "This is Spinal Tap". This is where "What We Do in the Shadows" comes in. This film combines some hilarious visual comedy elements similar to Edgar Wright, while also including the mockumentary improv style of Christopher Guest, and while filmmakers Taika Waititi and Jermaine Clements don't quite reach the heights of those two directors, they craft an original, very funny comedy. The film gets right into it. For the first 6 minutes basically everything is a joke, and it's pretty hilarious, but I was immediately skeptical about how long they could go with this premise while still being funny. The answer is: surprisingly long, even if it begins to feel one note towards the end of the film. For those unfamiliar with the premise, there is a group of vampires that meet in a flat in New Zealand, hang out, go to clubs, and casually live their lives as vampires. The film is basically filled with clever moments playing into vampire lore, and hilarious lines (that I will not spoil). The film is It's also surprisingly heartfelt. It's actually about the value of friendship, and finding people who accept who you are. There isn't really much more to say. It's funny and clever and by the end of the film they've pretty much milked all that they could out of the premise and then some. It's definitely one of the better comedies I've seen recently. Hilarious cast of characters, great performances, and surprisingly great visual effects, mostly done practically.
In a class with Rocky Horror & other midnite gems
This low budget gem from New Zealand is a classic. Even a mediocre TV remake will bring it more fans.
A damn good film
Well there is a few nitpicks I could make, overall the film is really good. It's funny, original and with some good acting. One of my favorite mockumentarys of the decade, watch it if you haven't.
Pure hilarity!
A mocumentary about vampire roommates who just want to fit in the modern world and have a, sort of, normal life. Plain and simply, a hilarious movie executed to perfection. The characters are incredible, the actors are amazing, the editing makes it seem like it is a real life documentary and the script is one of the funniest I have ever seen! The laughs just keep coming with this one. It throws all the vampire cliches in the 21th century, lampooning all of the troupes people came to expect from vampire movies. Just an amazing piece of comedy and film-making.
Thinking outside the coffin This is an instant cult classic. Fun movie that shows vampire in a new ridiculous light, or shadows. If you like it's silliness, then you will love the tv series. 7.5/10 3.5/5 B
subjective This non-comedic comedy...is wonderful... the comedy style here is probably just...subjective...it's funny...it could be unfunny...hard to explain...personally i find it funny...it's not laugh out loud funny though...it's more like musing funny as it goes on...some internal tropes kinda get old... I'd say it's good...second season probably better than the first...
the gang of vampires that make us giggle
I really love how this movie shows the daily life of vampires (if they're really exist) nowadays. I thought that the power of this movie isn't in cinematography or stories, but in their gimmicks. They showed us how the gap of birth of being vampire can influence to their behavior, how if they're fight and suddenly flew up to the ceiling, how they really couldn't ate human foods and soon. Those are things are priceless, and they make this film looked like documentary movie it's the right decision.
Even this a documentary-ish movie but the visual effect was very good, i didn't see any odd things during watched this.Very interesting.
Endearing and really funny
I watched this on my teenage son's recommendation so I wasn't expecting too much, but it was really funny from start to finish. A great story which is touching in parts. You end up loving all the characters especially Stu. I highly recommend.
A good film, even if it wasn't for me
O New Zealand is an underappreciated country when it comes to comedic gems. Jermaine Clement and Taika Waititi (who is now one of the hottest directors in Hollywood) are both excellent at what they do, inventing absurd vehicles for their unorthodox comedies. I can appreciate this film for more than the laughs it gave me (my mum was laughing pretty much constantly), and I can see that, even if I personally didn't find it hilarious, that it does have merits. Vampires are an ideal subject for satire (particularly given the oversaturation of the genre at the start of the decade), and every aspect is lampooned at some point in the film. A storyline is not totally present per se, but the mockumentary format does its bit to merit the film. Whilst I know this wasn't the film for me personally, I still can attest to this movie's quality.
totally didn't expect this comedy gold
I was laughing the entire time - I enjoyed it SO much. Every scene was just so fascinating and I didn't want it to end. Highly recommended it for anyone looking for a laugh
Fun, zany and original
I watched the TV series before the movie which I absolutely loved. The movie is not as good as the tv show but still a great watch. The characters are fun and I just loved the craziness of vampires and werewolves living kind of ordinary lives in modern society. Some laugh out loud moments. A good watch.
Surprisingly Good
Comedy is very subjective. You could probably make the same statement about most genres, but comedy more than anything can be a very personal experience and what one viewer finds hilarious is often considered to be "stupid" by another. Because of that, I usually take reviews of comedy films with a grain of salt. Even when the positive reviews came from many of my favorite horror sites, I was still skeptical that I would actually enjoy the movie, especially because I've never been the biggest fan of foreign humor (meaning not American). I went into the movie carrying that skepticism and was idling away checking my Twitter account for the first several minutes of the movie. Something happened, though, about 30 minutes into the movie. I found myself engaged by excellent writing and clever characters. The movie revolves around four roommates, who essentially represent different archetypes of vampire. One guy is effeminate and fancy, reminding me of Anne Rice's vampires. The "newest" of the four is the most daring in their minds but still hilariously outdated. The two who remain are almost perfect caricatures of Dracula and Nosferatu. Jermaine Clement as the Dracula character is the centerpiece, pulling a charming riff on the Oldman interpretation. The makeup on the Nosferatu clone is very good for a low budget and they do some clever things by playing with the twist of Petyr being the eldest of them and sort of the last step in evolution. There are plenty of in-jokes for vampire fans, with twists and references to classic vampire movies. What really makes the movie work, though, is that the characters are good. The creepy vamp in the basement makes a new protégé, who becomes the fifth wheel in this gang. He introduces them to his "bestie" (a human), who the group suddenly grow to like more than the noob vamp. The situations this creates drive the humor, for the most part, but the emotions it brings out in the characters really cements this as a well acted and written movie, as well. To sound horribly cliché, I found myself liking them and caring about the resolution of the movie. We're even introduced to a group of guys who seems like they could be a pack of rugby fans, but are revealed to be monster of their own, which creates a funny rivalry that the movie uses to good advantage. Overall, I was much more impressed by this movie than I thought I would be. The characters are fun, the movie makes some good jokes that any vampire fan will enjoy and the director, also, adds to interesting flourishes and visual touches that combine to make this movie stand out among the pack in this year's indie horror films.
Hilarious! Hilarious! Hilarious!
Hilarious! Hilarious! Hilarious! New Zealand has made it again with my last year's favorite Housebound and now What We Do In The Shadows is my new favorite and best horror/comedy film of 2015!! Not only all the characters here are absolutely hilarious but the mockumentary concept of this film is just brilliant. Think the mixed of Behind The Mask: The Rise of Leslie Vernon and a bit of Cabin In The Woods and you will get this vampire twisted-genre film that pokes fun at several vampire references and will make you laugh like crazy from start till finish. There are some SCARY make-up and jump scares here but overall the film is more of a comedy so don't go in expecting any of that kind like Housebound as well as the GORES. While the plot may not seem to be fully developed enough but as long as it can crack you up all the way through with several laugh-out-loud moments, plus making fun of the genre you love, that's just all it takes for me for a successful horror/comedy film
nice!
This film was a nice surprise, If you like flight of the Concords, like me, you'll enjoy the humour here, but it's more than just cheap gags and laughing at their poor accents they put on, there's actually good jokes thrown in and great one liners throughout the film. The actual story line almost gets in the way of the comedy, like it should be a show rather than a film that needed a start middle and end, There's some great moments in this film, heard rumours of a spin of with the werewolves, who were great, Murray from flight of the Concords - same character, but a werewolf. Can't go wrong comedy wise with that. Hey! We're werewolves.. not swear wolves.
It's a Clever Concept Executed Smartly and Packaged Wonderfully
When I heard that there's another movie about vampires, it won't catch my interest anymore, until this! It's so smart, the plot and storyline are simple but clever, it makes you want to know more about the characters and their lives (wait, they're undead, so it's supposedly 'deaths'). Each character gives more life to the story, their relationship is lovely. It actually portrays the basic basic things in life, but because it's another world, it becomes interesting. However, also thumbs up to the execution and packaging of the idea, it won't be as interesting if it's not done well. The documentary style, the dialogue, the whole of it is just nice to be followed. I can see how this will be easily a popular series if it's invested better. Seriously, it's so clever. You'd want to watch more!!!
The best comedy ever made
Never given a 10 before, but this is here is comedy at its finest. Same for the film AND the series, you just dont.want.it.to.end. Watch both, you won't regret it.
One of the worst movies I have seen in a very long time
I usually don't write reviews on IMDb, but I made an exception this time to prevent people from making the mistake I did by watching this piece of crap. Don't trust the high ratings. Don't be fooled by praising reviews. This is a horrible movie. You won't laugh a single time in this "comedy" if you have at least some sense of humour. This is as bad as it only can be - boring, long, badly filmed, badly acted - and it doesn't even fall into "so bad it's good" category. Just a steaming pile of horse manure. Totally overrated. Don't waste your time. Move along. Watch something good instead. Mostly the ratings here are reflecting the quality of a movie. This one doesn't.
This Disembowels Twilight Series And Leaves It Bleeding For Dead!
Pure genius is rare and that's what this film is. The concept is pretty freaky and every damn indie film maker in this internet age should feel jealous of the people behind this mockumentary for not coming up with as original and as hilarious satire. I think this film has its rightful place in the annuls of good vampire fiction and is far better than any of that pretentious teenage vampire drama that youngsters found so enticing about a year or two back. Who says vampire fiction is over? Jaimine and Taika who are the writers, directors and play two of the main characters of the movie show us that vampire fiction can be reinvented in ways you probably can't imagine. What We Do In The Shadows simply expands this genre in a funny and modern way and sorry Mel Brooks, these lads from New Zealand have done it better than Dracula: Dead and Loving it. Quite surely, this is a time where more dreams can come true than before. I am glad that this film got crowdfunded so that it could get wider screenings in US but a lot of the world would probably still miss it. However, I will recommend it to those I know and would hope for a possible sequel. This is cult movie gold. You have made a fan today.
What We Do In The Shadows is one of the best films to be released in 2015. Although there has only been two or three good films this year, I believe, even by the end of the year this will stand tall. This film has caused a stir in our zombie crazed society. Not since Twilight has a vampire film been so popular. (The only difference is Twilight sucked hard) Like 'District 9' it's filmed as a documentary or, more appropriately, mockumentary. The best part of this film is it makes the most of this style. Unlike 'District 9' which was pretty inconsistent with this highly controversial style. While it's not "One of the flat-out funniest films in ages!" it does have some really hilarious moments. That is 'What We Do In The Shadows' greatest strength and most crippling downfall. The film is only memorable in it's moments. Not as a whole. It feels like a cluster of great skits that have been thrown into a feature length film. Sure this approach works with television shows such as 'Saturday Night Live', but not really as a movie. That aside this is a really fun film. As I explained earlier, the moments make this film what it is. From Werewolves swearing then quickly retorting by saying, "We are Werewolves, not Swearwolves." to vampires fighting on the ceiling. It's chalk full of memorable (and quotable) scenes and lines. While it may not have the hilarious one liners that films like 'Anchorman' possess, it does a great job of being new. It embraces all of the Vampire "stereotypes" and puts them to funny use. We see some burnt to a crisp when exposed to daylight, fights between two as bats, and a handful of great lines remarking on their age. It brings Vampires into the modern world with such grace and reality it feels utterly real. This is in large part due to it's documentary style. We see camera men slaughtered by creatures and all forefront characters getting face time via interviews. With such a small film like this, usually the special effects are sub par. And for the most part you give them leeway for the budget they are working with. This is not the case with 'What We Do In The Shadows'. The effects have a Chris Nolan feel to them. Opting to go practical or CG. And it works so incredibly well. There is no point in the film were one will be taken out by an awful effect. 'What We Do In The Shadows' transcends the average film with it's great cast and extremely witty humor and blazes it's path to being an instant classic.
Hilarious. See it. Full Stop.
They're all great. Viago is the best. I'm not sure when was the last time I saw a better comedic performance in a Hackneywood film ... a LONG time ago.
Speaking of Hackneywood, this film further corroborates that Hackneywood & France now make the worst films in the world. Hackneywood's formula of preachy PC BS has become so rigor(mortis)ous that most of its films stink & even its best films have a bit of a stench to them. Indian, Russian, Kiwi, etc films with low-budgets make you say "Oh, THAT'S ENTERTAINMENT!"
Screw Hackneywood.
Deadpan hilarity!
After Housebound we get a second horror movie from New Zealand: What We Do in the Shadows. I must say, after seeing Tracks, The Rover, Charlie's Country, 52 Tuesdays and Predestination (and, to a lesser extent, These Final Hours and Underground: The Julian Assange Story), the Aussie's really began to amaze me. It took them long enough: the brilliant Mary and Max is a 2009 feature (no I didn't forget Baz Luhrmann's The Great Gatsby, which I found quite dull). At the same time the Aussie's make a comeback, New-Zealand starts to throw off its Peter Jackson-shackles and brought Jane Campion back on stage: Top of the Lake blew me away. And now Housebound and What We Do in the Shadows are some of the best horror movies of 2014! If you like the deadpan humor of Flight of the Conchords (and Jemaine Clement) and you're sick of Hollywood vampirism, then this film is definitely worth the watch. Probably the most dry take on bloodsuckers ever seen on screen.
I was wrong this film is amazing and very funny
Back when this came out I gave it a miss because it sounded dumb but few years later I realised it got a bit of a cult following so checked the trailer again I got put off than I watched the amazing Thor Ragnarok and found out it was directed by the same guy and so 2019 I finally got round to watching it and boy was I wrong, the film blew me away I went into it knowing absolutely nothing about it and yet start to end I was hooked and laughed throughout the movie the jokes were wow and did not get old and though the plot was weak the movie made up for it with great characters excellent humour and a tremendous final
A Vampire tale you will not soon forget
Some people love documentaries, some people despise them, myself I'm somewhat in the middle, of course the subject has to interest me somewhat for me to even take a look at. Mockumentaries on the other hand I love (when done well) When it comes to mockumentaries, anything and everything goes, there are no real rules, as long as it's somewhat believable, interesting and makes us laugh usually a mockumentary is well received. Give anything some interesting characters and a reality storyline and it's usually enough to make us want to watch. I personally had never heard of "What we do in the shadows" until a friend asked me my thoughts, after watching the trailer I had the film in no time ready to watch. Viago, Deacon, Petyr and Vladislav are four housemates who rent a property in New Zealand, they have lived together for a very long time and know all there is to know about each other, the guys have one thing in common; they are all vampires and each of them is between 100 and 300 years old, never aging from the time they were originally turned. The film follows three of the group as they go about their daily business from their eating habits to their cleaning habits even introducing us at one point to their enemies. Along the way they meet Nick who is turned and decide they need to show him their world and how to survive it on a day to day basis. What we do in the shadows is a laugh a minute, literally. Line after line of jokes, wit and humour never end. Being a mockumentary film the character development is quite strong, you do actually end up feeling sorry and getting involved in each of their lives and the journey they undertake. I personally thought the characters were fantastic, each had their quirks and quips which made them stand out for their own reasons. Starring Jemaine Clement (Eagle Vs Shark, Flight of the Conchords) as Vladislav. Taika Waititi (Eagle vs Shark, Boy) as Viago. Jonathan Brugh (How to meet girls from a distance) as Deacon. Ben Fransham (30 Days of Night, The Ferryman) as Petyr and Cori Gonzalez-Macuer (Eagle vs Shark) as Nick. The guys were brilliant, funny and captivating, never taking themselves too seriously but seriously enough to engage you in their mishaps and adventures. The film is based around a short film made by the same people in 2006, being a mockumentary the camera work is pretty much hand held camera work, but it works well in its style and you never feel you're missing anything. The directors, writers and actors who all worked together have done an outstanding job in making some good fun lighthearted entertainment. Not really one for the younger kids and the teens won't really get all the hidden jokes throughout but I think mums and dads who have a slightly warped sense of humour will love it.
Fabulous Movie...
This is a great Vampire movie...I can't stand the genre and this movie is brilliant...make sense of that!? It's a comedy documentary seemingly low budget until the special effects kick in unexpectedly. I've watched it loads of times and wish I'd have thought of it. A masterpiece and a showcase of real talent. Thank you for making it. 11/10
It's Your Turn to do the Dishes
I caught this little hidden gem on HBO the other night. I laughed until I darn near peed myself. It is so refreshing to see a movie of this type that simply refuses to take itself seriously. I think I so enjoyed this because I had not seen any trailer, advertisements, or hype about this movie. Face it, most movies whose trailer runs for, oh, six months or so, usually wind up not being worth a dime. In fact, the best parts of the movie are usually found in the trailer. "What We Do in the Shadows" is a story about very old vampires trying to adapt to the new day. When it opens, the household is about to have some sort of meeting. I was expecting something weird...and you find out they are meeting because one of them will not do his only assigned household chore, i.e. washing the dishes. They have this intense meeting that ends with all of them levitating and hissing at one another! One has his own familiar to do his dirty work. She longs for the world of the vampire, but keeps getting put off by her master. She provides victims, which they turn one into a vampire and he cannot keep his mouth shut, so everybody knows what's going on. And their rivalry with a local pack of werewolves damn near put me over the edge. I cannot say enough good things about this movie. There is comedy galore, a "beast," and the script was well written and very well acted. Kudos to these guys. I enjoyed everything about this one and highly recommend it for viewing. The movie is rated "R" for violence and some language. Enjoy yourself!
Ridiculous, hilarious, and full of heart.
I heard about this movie on Reddit, and after looking at the trailer, it looked promising. However the actual endearing quality of the characters only truly cones across in the movie. The three main vampires are truly the heart and soul of this movie. Each one has a very unique personality and there are some instant classic quotes such as the werewolves and not swearwolves scene and the spaghetti scene. The lead vampire does an amazing job as the lead and you can't forget about stu. Parts of it very dark comedy and the excessive gore causes a mix of disgust and comedy. It is a truly unique movie that may be polarizing but if quirky comedy is your thing, then you'll love it.
Rock n' Roll Mockumentary with Vampires !!!!
This mockumentary has got Spinal Tap written all over it and in a good way. The film shows us the lifestyle of a few vampires who share a flat and it shows us how they lead their nocturnal lives and how they survive. The characters are all very sweet and likable, even though kill and drink human blood to survive. The film and the directors love these characters and that love permeates through the film in each scene. The vampires come off as naive, adorable and sometimes arrogant (like rockstars) individuals who struggle to cope with changing times of the dynamic human society. The film also has enough blood and gore for the fans who like their vampire films to be gruesome.
The acting from all parties involved is brilliant. The direction and screenplay is good. The film has the typical dry, quirky British humour (although it is from New Zealand) that I like and it is a thousand times better than most loud,raunchy American comedies that get released nowadays. The storyline is simple, but the brilliance of the writing and the screenplay keeps the viewer engaged throughout the film.
The film might not go up to 11, but it is still "bloody" great (the pun was intended).
don't understand the other reviewers...
This was really painful to watch. I really don't understand how people gave so high grades to this thing...it is really boring, and the funny moments are so sparse , that they don't make up for the boring and utterly stupid moments of this film. I went through half of it, and couldn't take it anymore. This was really painful to watch. I really don't understand how people gave so high grades to this thing...it is really boring, and the funny moments are so sparse , that they don't make up for the boring and utterly stupid moments of this film. I went through half of it, and couldn't take it anymore. This was really painful to watch. I really don't understand how people gave so high grades to this thing...it is really boring, and the funny moments are so sparse , that they don't make up for the boring and utterly stupid moments of this film. I went through half of it, and couldn't take it anymore.
Taika and jermaine combined equals greatness
Two of the funniest people ever to leave New Zealand makes this one of the best movies of all time.
Great movie
This movie came out before the director became famous. If you like Wattiti's humor you will love this movie. A great spoof of vampire movies. Very funny.
It Ain't Easy Bein' Undead
"Leave me to do my dark bidding on the internet!" The thought of New Zealand riddled with goofy vampires makes me happy. This movie is silly but clever, and that makes me happy too. Be happy. Watch this movie.
They're just some wild and craaaazy guys
Armed with crosses, a documentary crew follows the lives of three bachelor roommates in What We Do in the Shadows. Viago, Deacon and Vladislav are just normal guys trying to enjoy life, you know: going to the club, bringing ladies home, dealing with roommate issues and of course, staying out of the sunlight. Oh yeah, did we mention What We Do in the Shadows is a vampire movie? Before you stop listening at 'vampire' – you really should hear this film out! Mockumentary styled What We Do in the Shadows is a perfect combination of dry observational humor, a smart screenplay and an original idea. The plot of the film is following the lives of these three wild and crazy guys but it is the way writers Jemaine Clement and Taika Waititi approach the movie that distinguishes itself as exceptionally hilarious. Having caught my attention awhile back when I first heard of the film – I knew it was a must watch for me when What We Do in the Shadows became slated for US distribution. What We Do in the Shadows is too funny for its own good. You know when something funny happens and then you go to explain it and the joke falls flat? That's what happens if you try to describe What We Do in the Shadows – it's one of those films that needs to be experienced to be appreciated completely. Everything about it should be foolishly absurd to the point of being off-putting – but somehow everything about it works. The jokes are constant and refreshingly smart, with not a crude joke in sight. The awareness of the genre and satire of classical vampire culture and society in general is top notch. The star of the film was easily the character portrayed by Taika Waititi –without whom the film probably would have been a bit too dry. If you like The Office and similarly irreverent humor, then What We Do in the Shadows is probably for you. Please check out our WEBSITE for all the REVIEWS of recent releases!
Bloody brilliant!
A hilarious mockumentary about lifestyles of four vampires who are flatmates. Makes fun about all the vampire tropes and stereotypes, while at the same time celebrating them. The humor is spot on and the effects are actually pretty good and/or funny!
"What We Do in the Shadows" is like a great amusement park ride that you'll want to relive again and again!
Great comedy can come from the most unlikely of places, both in terms of location and subject matter. How about vampires? Are they funny? They can be. They've been fodder for many big-screen comedies over the years. How about a vampire comedy from, oh say, New Zealand? Believe it or not, that's the combination you get in "What We Do in the Shadows" (NR, 1:26) – and, as the movie's poster makes clear, it is hilarious!

This is a mockumentary about four vampires living together in the suburbs of Wellington, New Zealand. They've invited a film crew (promising not to eat them) into their house to document the vampires' daily lives (actually, nightly lives) and their preparations for the annual Unholy Masquerade ball. The vampires have a variety of backgrounds and personalities. The one who addresses the camera most is Viago (Taika Waititi, who also co-wrote and co-directed the film). He was "a bit of a dandy" before he became a vampire three centuries ago and now basically acts as the group's housemother, calling a meeting to discuss chores, for example. Vladislav (Jemaine Clement, the other half of the film's writing-directing team) is the ladies vamp of the group and, back in the day, was much feared for his habit of "poking people" (a winking homage to the real-life Vlad the Impaler, who was the inspiration for the legendary Dracula character). The group's youngest member is Deacon (Jonathan Brugh). He's less than two centuries old and he's the most impetuous of the four. Oh, and he used to be a Nazi. The fourth blood sucker is 8,000 year-old Petyr (Ben Fransham). He's the oldest of the group (looking like the vampire in the classic silent film "Nosferatu") – and he's also the crankiest. He usually just stays in his closet.

Most nights, the three youngsters of the group go out to clubs looking for victims (and sometimes harassing the local werewolves), but sometimes they have a dinner party – a phrase that takes on a whole new meaning in this case. Deacon has a human servant named Jackie (Jackie Van Beek) who helps out the housemates by doing everything from cleaning up blood that has been spilled in their house, to helping them get new victims. Deacon has promised Jackie that, after a certain period of service, he'll make her a vampire. One day Jackie brings a couple old acquaintances, named Nick (Cori Gonzalez-Macuer) and Katherine (Ethel Robinson) to the house for one of those dinner parties. After playing it cool for a while, and then briefly toying with their guests, they attack. They suck Katherine's blood, but Petyr gets a hold of Nick and turns him into a vampire. Nick ends up moving in to the house. The guys teach him about being a vampire (important things like – don't tell everyone that you're a vampire!) and he helps them get up to date on modern technology (including cell phones, the internet and Skype). Nick starts bringing his best friend, Stu (Stuart Rutherford) around to the house. That's usually a big no-no amongst the children of the night, but Stu takes it all in stride, and they all really like him, so they decide that it's cool. But that's not the end of the story. This situation comes to a head (along with a long-standing feud between Vlad and a rival vampire whom he calls "The Beast") at The Unholy Masquerade. All that, along with a few zombies and other "predeceased" creatures thrown into the mix (not to mention a pivotal encounter with that pack of werewolves) and the movie has an ending that is to die for.

A lot of the comedy in "What We Do in the Shadows" comes from the juxtaposition of the vampires' politeness and their brutality, as well as the matter-of-fact way that they talk about their lifestyle and nefarious nocturnal activities. A good example would be Jackie driving in her car, casually discussing the merits of eternal life as a vampire, or Nick talking about the ups and downs of being a vampire and ending with "It sucks." Whether the comedy makes you laugh out loud or you simply find it quietly amusing is a matter of individual personality, but most people seem to agree that, no matter how you define it, this movie is very funny – and very clever. It goes to show that filmmakers don't need millions of dollars, big-name stars and an elaborate story to make a quality film. A great concept, properly fleshed out (no pun intended) and a few creative and talented actors will do. This movie is like a great amusement park ride. It's scary, fun and unique – and as soon as the ride is over, you want to get right back in line and enjoy it all over again. "A-"
Dude from Flight of the Concords does a vampire movie!? Awesome!!
When I read the logline I thought it was going to be a serious movie, but when I saw the poster I realized it was a comedy. All the reviews on the posters said it was hilarious and they were so right A New Zealand film crew films a documentary about a group of vampires who live in a flat together. Each vampire takes on a popular stereotype of the vampire (like Pete the oldest of the group who looks like Nestratu), but mostly they all fell under Eastern European Archetype. The movie mocked the day to day life of these old country style vampires attempting to live in the modern world, going out to parties, trying to find ladies (mostly to kill). The simpleness of their lives was absolutely hysterical. It's been a long time since I've seen the classic style of the vampire on the big screen. Though it was done for laughs if you're a horror purist you'll get a kick out of watching these guys be stylish when you can't see yourself in the mirror, or the day to day task being of a modern day familiar. And I hear it was a Kickstarter founded film. Equally as funny as Flight of the Concords, and one of the best mockumentaries I've seen.
Obvs the best vampire documentary ever made
Very funny, nicely made 'documentary' of the lives of some vampires in Wellington NZ. I'm not at all a fan of gory horror and I get spooked easily, but this film was just very funny, great comedy. The style is sort of low profile just as a documentary could be, it feels kinda low budget but it looks great and they used a good amount of SE.
Funny mockumentary
Loved it! Honestly this was my first mockumentary, and this movie made me feel good. Maybe i didn't laugh really hard at every joke they had in movie but i kinda smiled every time. You could say that there is no plot,or no interesting things happening but this is mockumentary! Documentary about fictional things. It's a documentary about vampires now-days trying to adopt. Characters was amazing. You can judge acting but i'm sure the way actors played their roles was meant to play. It looked great, and it suited well. I had a great time watching this and I really recommend everybody with good humour watch What We Do in the Shadows.
Pretty darn good The Office meets Vampires
I think it's all there in the title. Lots of people are going way overboard with overwhelmed appreciation, most likely they didn't expect this to be any good really and got surprised, so this is definitely not a masterpiece but it's really very solid throughout.
I've heard the criticism "lack of plot". This is clearly one of the strong points, if anything, of the film. There's lots of content, but not much story at all, so the film does superbly well at pace, and one thing it definitely nails which was tough was not being boring about an hour in. Lots of films are funny as a narrative written down on paper, and lots of fun during the first half an hour, but then becomes immensely silly and untenable as a full length film. This doesn't do that. At all. At no point does one feel he just 'gets it' and wants to move on to something else, it keeps it funny and interesting til the end.
Humor wise, it's actually pretty funny. It avoids being the graphic horror kind, you can actually laugh if you don't like horror at all so it's not being self-indulgent or a generic homer (or a cultural homer, people completely uninitiated to Oceanic/kiwi culture, who just speak English, can get it just fine).
The characters are good, and pretty darn well acted out. You'd really think the actors were East-European, but none of that.
Funniest scene for me was the cops under the spell inspecting the premises.
One last thing: in many specific places, with particular quotes or in general as a global metaphor, the film does well, subtly, at recognizing and establishing this world of vampires and werewolves etc...isn't all that different from the world of us humans in many respects.
How vampires flat share!
Very funny mockumentary from New Zealand featuring some of the Flight of the Conchords folks and directed by the same team that made Eagle and the Shark. If you liked either of those then you will definitely enjoy this. It's definitely quirky! There is some great dialogue backed up by some nice visual touches as well. My only complaint is that it's slightly too long to keep the humour level high, it probably could have been trimmed by 10 minutes to make the whole thing tighter. However, I really enjoyed it despite my minor niggle above. It might have been better on the small screen but who am I to argue with the "New Zealand Documentary Board"? Enjoy!
A quirky, funny and fresh take on vampires.
Very quirky and funny with an oddball cast of characters and interesting taste in music. It works quite well as a spoof documentary, and the simple yet effective special effects compliment the style. None of the ideas are truly original and it does run low on ideas towards the end, but it's still a fun and fresh take on vampires.
A cheaply made effective gonzo horror film
In Wellington in New Zealand four vampires live and survive together. They feed and live off young victims they invite round to the house, look out for werewolves when they go out behave like fresher frat students. When they befriend one human (Stu Rutherford) they begin to enjoy the pleasures of being a human.
Spoofy mockumentary horror comedy that draws cleverly on other horror movies and vampire mythology while retaining its own gonzo style of filmmaking with some often hilarious effects. Inevitably it is a film with cult status and does a great job in a mostly original film, although it can be a little patchy in places.
A fine showcase of undisguised Kiwi humour.
If you don't 'get' Kiwi humour, you won't like this film. Kiwi humour is as unique as Aussie humour; not the same, but close enough for us to appreciate the differences. Other nationalities may be too (up themselves) I mean sophisticated, or find the jokes too low-brow, juvenile or too culturally specific. Each to his own I guess. I like Kiwi films. Just check out Bad Taste, Hunt for the Wilderpeople or Black Sheep. I tend to watch these films with an incredulous expression of WTF interposed between cracking up. Some of the jokes do fall flat but the undertone is usually enough to keep you engaged. The make-up is particularly good in WWDITS. The characters are well acted and the post-production crew did a great job of cutting 120 hours of improvised footage into this movie. Apparently, to maintain a documentary feel, no one had access to the script until they actually performed a take. Stu had no idea he was such a big part of the action. I don't want to call this film a guilty pleasure, because I did enjoy What We Do In The Shadows and I don't feel (very) guilty. Salute the Kiwi way and check out this film.
Fiendishly funny
Done in the style of a documentary Taika Waititi both directs and acts in the film, he's got some great range. The vampires are hilarious and each have their own little quirks, there was a joke basically every 30 seconds and most hit the mark. The obvious premise of vampire roommates is genius and the gap between them and the modern world is brilliantly done, every character had enough screen time to get relatively well invested in and care about. 8/10: One of the best mockumentaries I've seen before, and done very cleverly
A sign of great things to come ... flawed but funny
I'm late to this party, and seeing it for the first time in 2019 it's easy to see the seeds of what led Taika Waititito get the Marvel gig (and execute it so brilliantly). Amongst all (sub) genres, comedy-horror is one of the hardest to get right; the film needs to be both a proper comedy and also a proper horror movie to really work, and take both genres at face-value. Shaun Of The Dead executes this near flawlessly; What We Do In The Shadows does well, but not quite enough for me. The documentary format - whilst a good joke - means it leans more on the comedy, and hence isn't really horror enough. The horror elements play almost as Hammer at its worst, which may or may not be intentional, but distracts from the nuanced performances. Some of the gags are brilliant - the verbal comedy, the physical, the nods to other films and especially the good natured, self aware fun with the rules and tropes of vampirism. Occasionally it hints towards bigger themes - homophobia, for instance. That would be a good fit; vampire stories are almost always about sex or sexuality in some way. The 'coming out' scene is inspired; the scenes of bullying in the street both funny and moving. But the theme never quite takes the theme far enough; it feels like one of a bunch of ideas thrown at the wall until something sticks. The film lacks an ultimate emotional punch for which it strives, and I'm left with the feeling that the newly-launching spin-off TV series might be the best format for this. It's good, of course, and has much re-watch value and quotability ... but the director had better ahead of him.
Flight of the Vampires
I went at this the wrong way, having seen the spin-off (US) series first. I was struck by how much gnarlier it was - a lot less American TV sheen and a lot more small city realness and bleak edges. The nocturnal kiwi equivalent of a Christopher Guest mockumentary - dry as a bone and intoxicatingly funny, it's no wonder it made the cult splash it did. Holds together remarkably well and they managed to whittle a fairly sharp narrative out of their hours of footage. An evergreen dark hoot.
Awesome
A meticulously crafted mockumentary film with well written dialogues, an outstanding screenplay, brilliant performances, thoughtful narration, direction, music choice and overall a well made indie horror comedy film. Funny, scary and emotional, all at the same time. The film that started a whole new franchise. Still can't believe they made this amazing film with just $1.6 million. It felt so expensive.
Dry dark but definitely funny
REVIEW - WHAT WE DO IN THE SHADOWS Whilst watching BBC2 the other evening I turned over to a program that was half way through but I instantly found the day dark humour funny and watched until the end. After searching for the title of the program I found it to be a US program made from the original film of the same name made in New Zealand. Sitting watching the film again the dry dark humour appealed. Basically a TV documentary crew are documenting the life of a group of vampires who live together and their lives, loves, victims and friends. Gets pretty surreal at times with the vampires trying to live in modern day social, like trying to get ready to go out on the town. Personally I just loved the whole idea and found this very original film to be a scream and am now watching the TV series. Bloody in places (they are vampires) swearing but definitely dry, dark and funny.
They're not so scary if you think of them as "vempiyehs"
And if, like me, you think that Jemaine Clement's slightly simian features and native Kiwi ic-cent are already funny enough, you may not be happy with the paste-on facial hair and faux-Transylvanian snarl that he puts on for this one. This 83' quasi-improvised mockumentary has pretty much the same cheesy flavor as one of the videos from a "Flight of the Conchords" episode, though it lacks the sweetness and wit (and Brett!) of the show itself.
On the plus side, co-w/d Taika Waititi has kind of an Andy Kaufman vibe going on, and the opening scenes have a sprinkling of pretty good deadpan gags—the "fletmites" have a house meeting to discuss why nobody's done the dishes for five years; primping in the mirror before a night of clubbing is clearly not an option, but various workarounds are available
I can't speak for the rest—after a long sequence of mirthless hummina-hummina improv (7,000-year-old Petyr turns a new guy who doesn't seem to be working out), I felt like I'd seen all that Vladislav, Viago, Deacon and Petyr had to offer. Jaded film critics who've seen too many "serious" vampire movies (I'm talking about you, Anthony Lane of The New Yorker!) seem to have gone way overboard for this one.
We drink virgin blood because it sounds cool.
Released in 2014, this comedy horror film is fly-on-the-wall mockumentary following the exploits of 4 modern day vampires living together as flatmates in the New Zealand town of Wellington. It was released fairly 'under the radar' but went on to receive lots of world-wide praise for how original and funny it is. Brief Summary: Four vampires living in New Zealand going about their day-to-day life. Detailed Summary: Viago, Deacon, Vladislav and Petyr are vampiric housemates who live together in New Zealand. They live fairly normal and mundane lives, doing chores, paying rent, and occasionally going out to nightclubs. One night, one of their meals is not killed properly and is turned into a vampire too. Nick, a modern twenty-something year old, is irresponsible of his new vampiric powers and goes as far as inviting his human friend into the arrangement, a bit of a no-no in the world of the undead. As events develop the vampire friends have to deal with their life while working with the new circumstances that have arisen. Film Stuff: Directed, written, and starring Jermaine Clement and Taika Waititi this 2014 film is more a labour of love and art, rather than a piece of work that was meant to be a blockbuster smash. Made with a budget of around $1.6 million this 86 minute film went on to gross $7 million at the global box office, so it's not necessarily just a bit of a laugh, some serious work went into this to make it a success. The concept of the film was developed using a short film in 2005 ("What we do in the Shadows: Interviews with some Vampires") as a litmus test. Music in this film comes from Plan 9, with Russian rock band Leningrad providing a song for the trailer and the end credits. The success of the film led to various spin-off TV series; in New Zealand "Wellington Paranormal", and TV series with the films title in the USA and UK. With some excellent, low-budget effects, fun make-up and costumes this is film really has a unique look and feel. Cast: At the top of the billing are Jemaine Clement and Taiki Waititi as Vladislav "The Poker" (based on Gary Oldman's performance in "Bram Stokers Dracula", and Viago "The Dandy" (based on Louis de Pointe du Lac from "Interview with a Vampire" - both are hilarious in their respective roles. They really lead the cast well and drive the film forward smartly. The bad boy of the group is Deacon (Jonny Brugh) who plays a great role as the ex-Nazi vampire experiment (based on David from "The Lost Boys"). Ben Fransham plays the dark horse of the group, Petyr (based on Count Orlok from "Nosferatu"), a character that is hundred of years old and easily the old man of the group and therefor the least human of the group. Nick and Stu (Cori Gonzalez-Macuer and Stu Rutherford) are the newcomers to the nest and do well (Nick being reminiscent of Edward from "Twilight"). Rhys Darby pops up leading a pack of Werewolves, he is good light relief to the seriousness of the Vampire chronicles. There are also plenty of other great performances in the film from other Vampires, Werewolves, Zombies and even the living humans too. Wrap-up I enjoyed this original mockumentary film and had a good laugh throughout. It is not a lengthy film and combined with some good editing this film never feels like it is dragging. There is a fun look and feel to the film which I really enjoyed. The effects were wobbly and shaky and worked well - lots of fake blood plenty of high wire flying. At times, the humour is laugh out loud ridiculous, while other times it is absolutely sterile deadpan; both of which suit the film really well. The film does not take itself too seriously at all and provides some good nostalgia to fans of vampire and supernatural films. Expect to see references to "Nosferatu", "The Lost Boys", "Twilight", "Dracula", "Night of the Living Dead", "Blade", "Buffy the Vampire Slayer", and so many more horror and supernatural staples of film. I read a review describing this film as the "Spinal Tap" of the vampire documentary films and that is quite an apt description. It is "The Office" meets "Flight of the Conchords" meets "Being Human" and most importantly, it is a damn fine film. Go into this with no expectations and you will be delights. It is probably not a family film despite its 15-rating due to the graphic nature of some of the horror - even though it is hilarious. Fresh, funny, strange but entertaining, this film is sure to be cult film for many years to come.
Hilarious With Lot's Of Great Gimmicks
What We Do In The Shadows is a downright hilarious Kiwi mockumentary horror-comedy about 4 vampires- Deacon, Vlad, Viago & Peter- who are flatting together after having immigrated to New Zealand. The life of a Kiwi Vampire consists of getting invited into bars, feasting on locals (preferably virgins), taking on human slaves (familiars) to do your bidding, going to masquerade balls (with other vampires, witches & zombies), and- of course- getting into street fights with the local gang of werewolves. Deacon is sort of the unofficial leader of the group. He keeps everyone in line and drags everyone out to different events. His still pangs for the love of his life- Katharine- whom he came to New Zealand for, only to find she was taken and happy. Seeing how happy she was, he decided not to turn her and let her live her life. She's now 90, but he still digs her. Viago- played by director Taika Waititi- is the youngest of the four. A rebel of sorts. He has a familiar named Jackie who does everything for the guys. She expects to be turned as repayment for her loyalty- but Viago keeps putting it off. Vlad- played by director Jemaine Clement- is the most infamous of the group. Renown in legend for his torturous ways (which he has since grown out of). His ex-girlfriend- The Beast- is his nemesis. Peter is the oldest of the group. They can't control him, so they keep him locked in a room in the basement. Unlike the others- who have retained their human images- Peter is rocking the traditional Nosferatu look. He enjoys turning people. He even turned Viago. At one point, the guys get Jackie to round them up some virgins for a dinner party: "I think we virgin drink blood because...it sounds cool." - Viago "If you were going to enjoy a sandwich. You will just enjoy it more if you know no one has f*cked it." - Vlad The loyal servant that she is, Jackie lures her childhood sweetheart Nick, and an old school chum, over for a "dinner party" at the den. But before the guys can feast on Nick, he manages to escape- only to be caught by Peter, who turns him. Newly turned Nick keeps pissing everyone off, as he won't stop flying around the neighbours and telling everybody he's a vampire. While out doing this, he accidentally reveals himself to a vampire hunter- who follows them home and kills Peter (before being slain himself). For this transgression, Nick gets banished from the den...but his best human friend Stu is still allowed to stick around, because all the guys like him (and have collectively agreed not to kill him). More trouble arises when Nick brings Stu to the annual Vampire, Witch & Zombie masquerade ball. All the other attendees can sense his humanness and want to feast on him. Forcing the group of guys to flee. On their way home, they happen upon a local pack of PC werewolves who are trying to chain themselves to trees before they turn during the full moon. However, a full scale battle breaks out, during which the werewolves seize Stu from the guys. The werewolves don't eat Stu though. They turn him- out of spite for the vampire counterparts. But Stu acts as a conciliatory force, and bridges the gap between the werewolves and vampires- rendering them friends in the end (even if there is still some tension there). It's great to see the Kiwi's keeping their mockumentary tradition- established by Peter Jackson with Forgotten Silver- alive. This film is absolutely hilarious. It's chock full of clever gimmicks, great special effects (on a budget) and just the right amount of gore (nothing too over the top). There are some great quotes in there too (like noted above). What We Do In The Shadows premiered at TIFF last year and deservingly took home the Midnight Madness prize (as the fan favourite Midnight Madness screening). If you are looking for a relatively new horror-comedy to check out this Halloween season...definitely go this route...it comes highly recommended.
Good, but never reaches its full potential
There's a filthy, lived in authenticity to the afterlives of the vampires who serve as the subjects of What We Do in the Shadows, the New Zealand comedy-horror mockumentary from writers-directors Taika Waititi and Jemaine Clement. If you're at all familiar with these names then you've had your ear to the ground of the irreverent indie comedy circuit of the past decade. Clement is one half of the popular HBO musical- comedy duo Flight of the Conchords and Waititi has enjoyed critical success with his films Boy and Eagle VS Shark, the latter of which Clement co-starred in. Their unique comedic voices seem like a perfect fit to bring a strange project like What We Do in the Shadows to a niche audience but breaking through to the mainstream may prove difficult. What We Do in the Shadows introduces its simple premise at the start: a documentary crew has been granted access to film the lives of four New Zealand-based vampires in the months leading up to the annual Unholy Masquerade Ball. Waititi stars as the group's defacto leader, the delightful dandy, Viago. He shares a house with Vladislav (Clement) – a centuries old count in the vein of Dracula, Deacon – a relatively young vampire and self-described "wild card" of the group, and Petry – an 8,000 year old abomination that pays homage to Nosferatu's Count Orlok with his grotesque appearance and preference to hiss and growl rather than deliver dead-pan observations on his night-to-night lifestyle. Viago, Vlad, and Deacon are fun to hang out with, especially when there's a squabble over chores (dishes gone unwashed for five years), but it's Petyr who steals every scene simply by sitting there looking hideous and out of place. A monkey wrench is thrown into the gears when a potential victim, Nick (played by Cori Gonzalez-Macuer), is instead turned vampire by Petyr and moves in with the group. There's a general dislike for the newcomer by our undead heroes and the film uses that as its principle plot thread. But there's much more to What We Do in the Shadows including a subplot about Deacon's female servant who longs for eternal life, Viago's long lost love of his youth, Vladislav's cuckolding at the hands of his greatest nemesis referred to only as "The Beast" and the added confusion of Nick's best friend Stu, a human the entire gang likes a whole lot more than Nick. Throw into this a rival group of werewolves and the Undead Masquerade Ball we've been teased and you'd think, "this sounds like one hell of a movie!" That's what I thought going in, but there are myriad issues with the whole of What We Do in the Shadows. The numerous subplots in this film tend to unfold in a linear fashion which immediately made me wish I was watching a television series based on this very movie where self-contained episodes could explore these interesting ideas more thoroughly. That the entire cast of characters is so interesting actually works against the overall plot of the film which ultimately becomes less interesting and unsatisfying just for taking us away from what we want to see in an effort to usher the film along. In short, I want to get to know more of these characters and the movie just won't allow it. Of course, the biggest issue with What We Do in the Shadows has more to do with unfulfilled promise. There are some incredible sight gags (vampires fighting in mid-flight, over the top gore that recalls Monty Python and the Holy Grail, and a lot of hilarious make-up and character designs), but most of the traditional setup and punchline jokes fall flat. There aren't any groaners here but I didn't find myself belly laughing at a single joke in this film and, for a comedy, that's disappointing. Often times I find myself nodding and thinking, "Oh, I can see why that's funny," but that doesn't really count as being legitimately funny; there are more echoes of comedy in What We Do in the Shadows than actual comedy. Still, with its imaginative visuals and fascinating characters, What We Do in the Shadows is certainly worth visiting, if only to see it firsthand and wonder what might have been. I'm not accusing anyone involved with this film of incompetence or lack of ability; just the opposite, in fact. What We Do in the Shadows is a hair under 90 minutes long, the perfect length for your standard comedy. But there's nothing standard about this film and it may have benefited from padding its run- time so as to more fully flesh out these characters and the world they inhabit. Better yet, as mentioned before, I'd have loved to watch this film unfold over several 20-minute episodes on cable. There's no use being angry at Clement and Waiti for the missed potential of What We Do in the Shadows. After all, they're only human.
A fun Halloween film
I remember when this movie came out and everyone was raving about it. Since then, I had completely forgotten about it unit today, when an email from HBO recommended it as part of their Halloween offering. Those memories of everyone saying how great it was and the fact that it is a Taika Waititi project made me eager to watch it. To be completely honest with you, I'm a little disappointed. That is probably due to my expectations, but nonetheless, I didn't enjoy it as much as I wanted to. First of all, is it funny? At times, sure. I wasn't howling with laughter at every joke but certainly, some of them landed. By far, the best and funniest thing about this entire film is the setting. Having four vampires of varying ages living together as flatmates is rather funny on its own. Unfortunately, I felt that that side was explored very little. Instead, the movie tries to introduce new characters and find comedy in their reactions to this whole ordeal. I would've been completely fine with watching the four main characters living their lives as vampire flatmates for the entire 86 minutes that this film runs for. They were by far the best and funniest characters in the film. As it is Halloween, I probably ended up enjoying this film more than I would've, say in July. And as a Halloween film, it works great. Obviously, there are vampires in it, but there are also werewolves and zombies, be it in very minor roles. The werewolves were in fact one the best parts of this movie. The mockumentary style and mostly funny jokes make this film a worthwhile watch. And of course, as with all comedies, you might end up enjoying this far more than I did, depending on your sense of humour. For me though, this was nothing more than a fun Halloween movie that made laugh a good few times.
Beware the Energy Vampires
My son put me on to this show as I'd never heard of it, its one of his favourite shows.
Personally I found it rather heavy going, I simply couldn't get remotely interested in any of the characters.
Not one single stood out as even vaguely interesting, so i really had to struggle with it.
Something that I have been mildly interested in since is the notion of energy vampires, my thought in that regard is perhaps the film company had them involved in its production. As I had this perpetual thought throughout the film of, what the hell am I doing with my life wasting it on stuff like this?
All things considered I find it hard to rate it without seeming over generous in the score.
In search of the final nail in the coffin of the sordid cultural relevance of Edward and Bella? Look no further than the supremely delightful What We Do in the Shadows. Here, newbie vampire Nick drunkenly parades himself through the streets of Wellington, braying "I AM TWILIGHT" as a pick up line, only to be greeted with blank looks of vague derision. It's pristine satire - gently but insistently raucous, and playing more off of Nick's incredulous 'Isn't this cool anymore' expression than the gag itself. And the best bit? It's only one of a nearly nonstop smorgasbord of sneakily clever, deliciously quotable gags the film offers. If Shaun of the Dead's 'rom-zom-com' infused the zombie horror genre with a much- needed surge of frantic humour and schlubby humanity, What We Do in the Shadows blends vampires, who have already been subjected to oodles of daft action and risible romance, with The Office's mockumentary deadpan and a thoroughly New Zealand 'no bullsh*t' ethos, to similarly sterling effect. Co-director/stars Jemaine Clement and Taika Waititi may thrive in 'chortle-funny' rather than the deep belly-laugh kind, but the chortles come so incessantly and raucously, they provide just as much of an ab workout. When you finally acclimatize to the spry wordplay, ("we are werewolves, not swear-wolves!"), lovingly integrated pokes at other vampire lore (including the bad etiquette of attending a vampire costume ball dressed as Blade, despite the fact that apparently "Vampires love Wesley Snipes!"), and faux-historical interludes (apparently Naziism was just as controversial within vampire circles), you think you might find rest. But it's only moments before you're blindsided again by interludes involving a pair of impossibly stupid police officers, or laughs as unobtrusive as a cutaway to Waititi playing a mournful trumpet. The film is nonstop, evidencing a breezy, cheerful humour that is too earnest not to love. It helps that Waititi and Clement wear their hearts on their sleeves, with an uncanny ability to tease out the silliness in vampire lore while still committing to the emotion at the heart of it. There's an undercurrent of deep, anachronistic loneliness imbued in the film's leading trio of bloodsuckers, which somehow makes their interludes of squabbling over the (five years) overdue dishes, or forlornly learning how to use Facebook all the funnier in their sweetness. Similarly, in this realm of immortal horror monsters, death comes fast, furious, and with unapologetic bluntness, and the cheerful interjections of staggering bloodiness that sprinkle throughout the film (sometimes quite inconveniently getting all over the furniture), or omnipresent threat of the documentary crew getting devoured, keep the fun appropriately gruesome throughout. In terms of cohesiveness, there's no question that the film is unapologetically episodic, like a prolonged sitcom episode or beefed up SNL sketch, but Waititi and Clement keep things nimble enough to keep the joke from wearing thin, before calling it quits with a chipper non-climax that's so nonchalant, it's only retroactively that it feels like it delivers the loose resolution you'd hope for. And, honestly, material this hilarious earns all of the clumsy non-sequiturs it can muster. Still, the film's ruthless silliness and sweetness consolidate into the perfect cocktail (presumably a blood-tini) in the hands of the effortlessly funny cast. As the ageless, effete dandy and tentative moral compass of the group, Waititi himself is massively adorable, pairing bug-eyed cheeriness with a cartoon Dr. Strangelove accent to tremendous effect. Similarly, Clement commits his post-Concords star power perfectly towards the enormous presence of his larger-than-life, crestfallenly ineffectual Vlad the Impaler. Jonny Brugh's scene-chewing rock star arrogance is all the funnier once paired with the clueless boorishness of Cori Gonzalez-Macuer or the indignantly neurotic Jackie van Beek as scene partners. Finally, Stuart Rutherford redefines the potential of the comedic deadpan as impossibly unflappably software analyst (and very human) Stu,* while Rhys Darby (don't call him Murray) is as reliably hilarious as ever, cameoing as an exasperated werewolf. Thoroughly sweet, disarmingly sad, cheerfully bloody, and infectiously watchable, What We Do in the Shadows proves one of a preciously slim caste of horror spoofs with genuine wings. While it's inevitably prime material to be gobbled up by Flight of the Conchords converts, it's also accessibly goofy enough to stand alone as one of the most unobtrusively funny sleeper hit comedies of the past several years. Just be cautious not to falsely publicize the film amidst the lingering forces of Twihards, or risk incurring Clement and Waititi intoning that these are vampires, not tramp-ires. Zing.
Loads of fun
A quartet of vampires, each from a different century, shares a house as roommates. They spend their time living their lives as any quartet of men would - demanding the dishes get washed, requesting one put down towels before biting a victim on the antique sofa, trying on outfits before going out to party up - but they do so while flying around, hissing and hypnotizing people. It's loads of fun.
A peculiar one.
This is a peculiar one, the second one I saw in a recent TV Halloween marathon, and one I've been curious for for a while. The concept is a mix of two familiar elements: vampires and mockumentary. I don't think it's ever been done before, but more important is the question whether or not it works?
Well, it did, actually. Taika Watiti (one the two directors) plays a very particular, rather sensitive character that somehow got a little on my nerves. The rest of the characters were pretty cool, though, and coming up with a new member and confrontations with the werewolves were some nice additions. Maybe a thorough storyline is a little absent - as it simply seems to be one long string of incidents - but that didn't bother me much.
The gore and special effects were very neatly done, even if they took a backseat to the comedic elements.
Ridiculously funny in a nonsense way.
The movie is written, directed and acted by Jemaine Clement and Take Waititi. They are both very talented and Taika Waititi is one of my favourite directors, all the movies directed by him have his unique childlike feature which is fun to watch and uplifting. This movie is no different, the plot is kind of nonsense but in a cute way. The movie doesn't have a deep meaning to reflect upon, you could simply lay back and enjoy the movie. Its mockumentary style makes the vampires so relatable as if they were real and were your neighbour next door. This should attribute to the amazing actors, especially Taika Waititi, making vampires so believable. When he is interviewed in the movie, he acts awkwardly just like a normal person, who isn't used to the spotlight. The characters are all goofy and they act stupidly but you won't get annoyed. Some comedies try too hard to make you laugh and end up the character are being ridiculously stupid and unlikeable, but this isn't the case, their character's goofiness is so believable that you find their stupidity quite adorable. So, if you are having a bad day or you wanted to take your mind off of something, this is the right movie for you.
Sanguinous hijinks
This upbeat and fairly risible mockumentary follows a group of vampire bachelors as they attempt to cope with the pressures of modern day living. Set in Wellington, New Zealand - which apparently has quite a thriving undead scene - the film's main subjects are vampires from different eras who have been housemates for a long time and whose shared taste for blood has kept their friendship alive, even if they do have slightly different ways of seeing the world. The dynamic between the group shifts when Petyr, the eldest of the housemates (played by Ben Fransham) turns one of their intended victims into a vampire. With a lot to learn and new urges and powers to gain control of, this new friend (who I've kept anonymous to mitigate the spoiler), is reluctantly taken in, and with him, a link to the present day mindset and the advantages that up-to-date technology can offer. The film succeeds in showing that each of the characters has their own personality. Vladislav (Jemaine Clement) is supposedly an evil tyrant who used to enjoy 'poking' his victims, but he's actually shy and introspective, which kind of works pretty well; Petyr is thousands of years old and is more the classic, Nosferatu-type vampire - he doesn't speak but his presence is fearsome; Deacon (Jonny Brugh) is complex, slightly insecure, a bit of a user, a bit of a manic depressive - which makes his character surprisingly believable. Jackie (played by Jackie Van Beek) is his disgruntled familiar, who must obey her vampire master's every command, hoping one day to receive the reward of eternal life through being bitten. Then there's Viago (Taika Waititi), a more reserved and fussy if not slightly staid vampire who nevertheless embraces the experience of being followed around by the documentary crew. One of the great things about this film is that it manages to have quite a unique take on the undead lifestyle. The werewolf pack for example: their dialogue and interaction - both amongst themselves and with the vampires - is fantastic. They are portrayed in a refreshing new way, as are the zombies. I would call What We Do in the Shadows a black comedy rendered in the style of a documentary or reality show. All the tropes of the genre are firmly in place, including repetitive cut-aways to ancient-looking etchings and paintings. This actually helps the film to progress its narrative and it keeps the audience rooted in the parody mindset, so I would say it works well. I actually rated most of the actors, considering most of them were new faces to me. Stu Rutherford plays himself and is totally believable. On the other hand, I found Taika Waititi's acting a bit forced in a couple of places. I'm not knocking his work ethic, obviously. He and Jemaine Clement not only acted in but wrote and directed What We Do in the Shadows. All things considered, this is an amusing, easygoing film that, if you're into the theme, is most definitely worth a watch; there are genuine laugh-out-loud moments and it's different enough to be worth an hour and a half of any film buff's time. I just fail to see how it's been scored over 7 by the community, because I like to take all things into consideration when I review a film, and try and let the facts speak for themselves. There are things that knock it down from having that kind of score, I reckon. Fairly obvious things. There's believability: for example, Viago is over 700 years old but apparently still hasn't worked out how to feed properly - I mean, this doesn't make him funnier as a character, to me; maybe it's meant to but the way it's done it seems more like a goof. Then there's the soundtrack, which is pretty dismal. Then I wonder, am I going to recall scenes of this film for years to come, am I going to quote it to my friends? At the time of writing, the IMDb score for this film is [7.6]. That's exactly the same score An American Werewolf In London currently has: exactly [7.6]. So... What We Do in the Shadows is exactly as good a film as An American Werewolf In London, is it? Not in my opinion - in fact a much stronger, more succinct phrase springs to mind (but I will try to restrain myself, like when you have that shameful urge to eat your best friend).
Good to watch with friends
Summary: This movie is a mockumentary movie about a group of 4 vampires called Deacon, Viago, Petyr and Vladislav. They are flatmates in New Zealand and they invite a documentary crew to film their daily activities that are very similar to our lives but with a vampire twist, like bringing people home from nightclubs to suck their blood, or going to undead festivals..
What I like: This is one of the funniest movies that I have ever seen. Normally I never laugh at movies, I just get amused, but this one I was laughing every few minutes, it's exactly my type of humour. The funniest moments only work with the expert delivery by Jemaine Clement and Taika Waititi who star in the movie as Viago and Vladislav as well as writing and directing it. If you told most of the jokes to someone they probably wouldn't get it but with the awkward pauses and absurdity that you see and hear in the movie, it makes you laugh every time.
What I dislike: The way that the story is structured it just seems like a series of skits with some connection in the story and personally I prefer stories with more of a plot. I would have also prefered if we got to see more of what the 4 main vampires lives where like in other time periods
I Love This Movie
A documentary crew films the lives of four vampires who share the same residence. This is one of the best vampire movies out there. It isn't scary, it is hysterical. There is some blood in it but nothing that is gross or "out there." These vampires let us have a look into their lives, day-to-day struggles and lets us see what makes them tick. I've watched it several times and each time I find something else to appreciate about it. If you like horror comedy, this is a must.
Dracula: Kiwi Comedy Style
Vampires, like most Gothic horror monsters have gotten a very infamous reputation. A reputation which has lasted over a millennia. They have been pegged as evil, blood-thirsty villains; soiling the innocence of all who become victim to their blood-lust. What's worse is within the last two decades their standing has changed to much more humiliating status; that of the romantic lead. Yes, we can all agree Twilight (2008) was a blight on the world but you can't deny the YA series' made an impact. Plus there were the better received True Blood (2008-2014) and Vampire Diaries (2009-now) which, for better or for worse, reformed Dracula's personal image. Between misanthropic movie monster and hunky boyfriend of the undead, is there maybe a better, more sympathetic portrayal out there for the besieged blood- sucker? What We Do in the Shadows involves the semi-normal life of four vampires who have made New Zealand their new home. In-between feedings, Viago (Waititi), Vladislav (Clement), Deacon (Brough) and Petyr (Fransham) have to deal with the common trials of being flatmates. Such trials include dividing up the chores via chore wheel, juggling their active social lives and avoiding run- ins with vampire slayers, local werewolves and a mysterious creature known only as "The Beast". Their biggest obstacle is modernizing to the 21st century, a task that is helped by new friends who tip the balance of their creepy, decrepit home. Co-written by half of Flight of the Conchords and given a mockumentary style, What We Do in the Shadows is the funniest movie you're likely to see this year. It's bolstered by goofy, self-deprecating performances and cheap yet seamless special-effects. Special mention should be given to Waititi's fussy performance as an Interview with a Vampire (1994) knock-off with an Eastern European accent. He becomes the center and voice of reason amid a growing group of rowdy undead friends and despite having the straight-man role, his nit-picking most often had me at medium giggle. The belly laughs however came from Clements's Vlad, designed to look like Dracula circa 1992. His one-liners showed a depth of skill when it comes to improvisation which hasn't seen a screen near me since Flight of the Conchords (2007-2009) ended its run on HBO. As far as mockumentary, What We Do in the Shadows matches This is Spinal Tap (1984) and Drop Dead Gorgeous (1999) chuckle by chuckle, perhaps more so. Along with being incredibly rich territory for situation-comedy, What We Do in the Shadows brings up some grounded if unconsidered questions about living with eternity. We all get older so we naturally struggle to keep up with the "next big thing," so what happens when a three-hundred-year-old man attempts to enter Wellington's most popular club dressed like an 18th century dandy? What happens the first time they use a cellphone or a computer? These aren't the chiseled, pristine vampires of Twilight; no these guys can't even use a mirror and are forced to draw each other to conceive what they look like. There's no way these guys have the sensibilities to make it in today's world. At least not without a lot of help and hilarity. As with all movies that adapt the mockumentary format, there are some drawbacks. There's some pretty cheap production design here and due to the subject matter most scenes are shot at night (duh!). This kind of budget is not helped by a flat aspect ratio and single-setup, point-and-shoot-type camera work. Thankfully there are enough consistently funny gags that keep the film light on its feet even if the supposed documentary crew are not. What We Do in the Shadows may not help vampires reclaim the staple horror movie villain image we grew up with and took for granted. I personally yearn for Nosferatu to jump out of the shadows and give the floozies of True Blood a run for their money. I suppose all things must go through reinvention and renewal. Modernizing overall is a positive force is it not? If for no other reason than we get fun little experiments like this Kiwi comedy classic.
New Zealand Strikes Back
What We Do In The Shadows is quite a funny, amusing film at times, which plays on the typical vampire films and stereotypes. It's probably the only good, true modern day vampire film around, which makes it vastly superior to any other vampire comedy around. However, What We Do In The Shadows does suffer from some relatively tedious parts, mainly the beginning, which seems to drag on and on without giving us much to work with.
Though a very great film, What We Do In The Shadows isn't quite as perfect as I was led to believe. Whilst humorous and witty, the film doesn't live up to the hype and expectations, mainly due to what I can only account for as time fillers and empty jokes.
Super Silly, Super Funny, I Loved It!
What We Do In The Shadows From the simple observation, how do vampires live in the modern world and what are they doing when not killing humans and what are vampire issues a whole comedic world has been created. This is a straightforward modern sitcom surprisingly and is a modern version of the Munsters and Adams Family. Brilliantly written brilliantly acted and just great fun from beginning to end. I love this type of silly humour, its not for everyone, perhaps more for a male audience, but I loved it.
Stylish indie film eschews plot in favor of plotlessness
This is a great looking film, with typically sharp Wellington VFX and sumptuous, gritty goth set design, the film is obviously an attraction for local New Zealand (and Wellington) viewers, in the sense that it shows its cast in familiar locations for partying Wellingtonians, and the camera is focused on Wellington actors Waititi and Clement for about 90 percent of the screen time. What We Do in the Shadows is also a mixed genre film, something the film industry tends to reject, but can be done brilliantly with indie film, and frankly, the film never feels cheap or compromised, often using a kind of there-in-the-moment live camera feel, and improvised lines throughout. However, this film has limitations, and its ultimately a bit of a disappointment. The movie shows the lives of four overdressed vampires, intimately sharing their crazy lives and tribulations etc, but there's really no plot, and certainly nothing resembling a satisfying ending sequence. Clearly, there's plot points that a proper story development could pick out as suitable material for a third act here, for instance, when an archaic Nosferatu-lookalike vampire downstairs gets attacked by vampire hunters, but the event just passes as 'part of the story', as are plot threads about gang friction between vampires and werewolves, or some bathetic humor about Clements ex-girlfriend being a torment of some sort. Basically, this is a film where the characters are defined, then the acting is improvised; as a result the audience gives its time, but after a stylish opening, gets no substantial ending in return. "Shadows" is basically a series of comedy sketches about flatting life for teens, and I would rather see some comedy with a bit of scope or depth - Waititi comes across on screen as clean cut, fruity and lightweight, but never hilarious. I get the feeling he was more focused on the quality of his images, and the character dynamics than the actual gags, much less the story. Oh well.
Hilarious
Best comedy I've seen in decades. Cast is incredible. It's one of those movies you can watch over and over again. Now I know most of the lines 
Won't survive the light of day
The mockumentary has not really had a good recent workout, due to the Fear of Looking Shallow. Why mock, when we can celebrate? In this case, what is apparently being mocked doesn't even exist. But this vampire flatmates genre flick certainly has the dial turned up to.. well not quite 11 but pretty high. What is fresh here is the humorous eye that laughs at the fallacies of the Hollywood vampire myth as well as the bro culture that the film is actually about. I loved the flatmates helping each other dress up for a night out because "they can't use mirrors, so don't know what they look like". They can only hang out in certain clubs, due to having to be invited in. Probably the peak of the humour involves the werewolves being a dumb Iron John self help group - "Werewolves don't swear!" - who seem to be in continual crises. Even the pathos about death is more or less pitch perfect. This has the strength to be a cult, but if it shames the torrent of vampire crap and angst hangers-on (yes Being Human, I'm looking at you) that gets churned out at a truly scary rate - so much the better.
Stu is the only human and he's the most hilarious character
Stu is the best character of all. He's really hilarious and so are the bat fight, the servant woman, the newbie vampire Nick. At the end the snobby vampire finally bit his lover who's staying at a nursing home and At the end he's become a werewolf after they got attacked by the gang in the woods. Now I'm absolutely going to check out the tv show.
A Hilarious Mockumentary
I tend to gravitate toward the Zucker/Zucker mindset when it comes to comedy — as a kid raised on "Airplane!" and "The Naked Gun", there's nothing better than a series of sight and sound gags that have more to do with a randomly placed guffaw than sly plot pushing. So the dry comedy subgenre doesn't usually do it for me, unless we're talking "Arrested Development" or anything Christopher Guest related — then I'll completely zone out and bathe in the wonder of the straight-faced one-liner delivery. Because in some ways, a well- crafted, deliciously complicated scenario akin to something you'd find in a particularly good episode of "The Office" can be just as potent as a quick belly laugh a la "Scary Movie". Mockumentary "What We Do in the Shadows" has much more in common with "Best in Show" than it does with "Young Frankenstein", its lightly sarcastic demeanor interlacing with the fixtures of the macabre with comedic radiance. Such results would hardly be a possibility without Taika Waititi and Jemaine Clement (of "Flight of the Conchords" fame), who co-direct and co-write with such witty adeptness that the broad premise of the film never feels broad because the tones and textures of the movie itself convince and thoroughly delight. The "We" in the title refers to a group of vampires being followed around by a camera crew. Occupying the same bungalow (or to be more scientific, den) for years, we are introduced to Viago (Waititi), Vladislav (Clement), Deacon (Jonathan Brugh), and Petyr (Ben Fransham). Viago, aged 379, is the "father" of the house, demanding his roommates attend group meetings to discuss things like the kitchen sink problem (no one has washed the dishes for five years), while he, in the meantime, mopes around about his long-lost love; Vladislav, at 800, used to be a hypnotic sexual demon in the same vein as Dracula, but has since lost his magic touch; Deacon is the young, wild one of the group (he's a spry 183) who first got his immortal kicks as a Nazi vampire, while the ancient Petyr (8,000) intimidates everyone as the household's Nosferatu. We also meet Jackie (Jackie Van Beek), the group's human servant who hopes her handiwork will lead to her turning, and Nick (Cori Gonzalez-Macuer), a twenty-something who was supposed to be a meal but ends up becoming a member of the household after Petyr inadvertently transforms him. I can write as much as I want about "What We Do in the Shadows", but never will I be able to capture the rhythm, the attitude, the genius of its humor. The ensemble is made up of skilled comedic performers, and the writing is endlessly clever (we can start with the vampirical hatred of the local werewolf pack or the annual get-together the undead throw to celebrate their undeadness, for starters). I found myself as quick to laugh as I was ready to sit in awe regarding the successful audacity of everyone involved. No one, no one, would decide that the best subjects of a mockumentary would be a group of self-serious vampires, and yet here we have one, a hilarious gem, no less, as sharp as the wooden stakes the focuses of the film so greatly fear. Clement and Waititi have outdone themselves. A find.
The best vampire movie in years!
Really funny both with dark comedy and subtle genre parody. If you liked flight of the conchords then this will be right up your alley.
Entertaining, even with some dry humour
The movie tells the daily lifeerrunlife of flatmate vampires Viago, Vladislav, Deacon and Petyr in New Zealand. Viago is the 16th century vampire, aristocratic and bossy often times. Vladislav is the medieval vampire, a noble vampire but also the most ruthless killer of them. Deacon is the youngest changed vampire from the World War II era, often acting out living like a bum in the flat. The last of them, Petyr, is the oldest of them, aging about 8000 years old. They live their everyday lives n the flat, still influenced by the cultures from their own times. The trio Viago, Vladislav and Deacon sometimes go out to the town and hang out. Deacon has a human familiar Jackie who does most of the blood cleaning related housework in the flat. She also lure in victims for the vampires. Deacon has promised vampirehood to Jackie but hasn't turned her yet. One night Jackie brings a couple Nick and Josephine as victims. Nick gets his blood drained by Petyr but he also turns him into a vampire. And then there were four. Nick brings in new cultural color to the group. Soon He brings his friend Stu, an IT guy, to the group. Stu introduces the modern information technology to the group and becomes a good friend to them. For this, and because he's Nick's best friend, the group form a pact not to eat Stu. Besides inviting Stu into the group, Nick is quite irresponsible of his newly gained vampirehood. He has been carelessly telling just about anybody that he's a vampire, even showing some of his abilities to complete human strangers. One day, a vampire hunter comes to the flat's basement, Petyr's lair. Petyr easily kills the hunter but he dies of sunlight. The group blames Nick for this and banishes him from the flat. Alas, the night for the Unholy Masquerade comes. The masquerade is the once a year night where New Zealand's undead community comes and mingles together. Vladislav doesn't go for knowing his nemesis is the event's guest of honor. Viago and Deacon go there and find that Jackie has been turned by Nick. They also bring Stu there, still human. Soon the masquerade guests find out that Stu is human and they get eager to eat him. The group manages to get Stu out safely but on their way home they meet their nemesis werewolf pack who are transforming since it's a full moon night. They eventually attack Stu and mangle his body. But it turns out that the attack turns Stu into a werewolf and that make the vampires and the werewolfs to be friends. The story is quite nice in overall. Focusing on the age old human fascination about the pseudo-immortal undead of vampires, the movie presents a very light mood about what used to be a strictly horror plot base. It nicely imagines the daily, or should I say nightly, consequences of a vampire's life of staying alive in the modern world. This is done by incorporating contemporary culture and customs such as flat sharing, hang outs, and the social internet critically into the story as plot defining elements, even though weaker ones. But the story also did justice to connect older vampire movies and the general myths about vampires by staying true to the main attributes of the vampires. Minus the garlic thing, this movie incorporates plot defining myths about the vampiric abilities, blood drinking, 'let me in' catch, silver, and the crucifix effect. What's good is that the movie doesn't add any more imbalanced super powers to the vampires. No offense to all of you Twilight Saga fanatics, but for me a vampire based story is already maximum without having to have superhero powers. When I see vampire movies, I really want to see vampires, not blood sucking X-Men wannabes. For that, I think that this movie, and Only Lovers Left Alive (2013), are great example of vampire movies that aren't predominantly horror but still also have the frightening side of vampires. Though they often feel dry, the humor nicely incorporates the vampire myths into it. I kind of like how they put in the silver, the 'let me in' catch and the hypnosis into the story. A funny surprise even comes in a post-credits scene for this. Yet again I feel that although most of the jokes are interesting, they don't really crack big laughs from me. For me the acting overall is not very good. I see a lot of overacting here and there by the three main characters, and 'under-acting' by the rest of the cast. But then again, I think that this movie's real interesting point is not the acting or the comedy, but instead the story and how the story mixes everyday modern life with the vampire condition. For me What We do In the Shadows (2014) feels like it deserves a humble 7 out of 10 score and a recommendation to go and see in the cinemas. It's mild and very entertaining. After the wave of Twilight Saga, I think this movie can put back the older vampire myths into the general understanding consensus.
Great movie, very funny - worth a watch
What We Do In The Shadows, is what you expect from Co-Creater of 'Flight of the Conchords', Jermaine Clement (Vladislav) and Co-Writer/Director Taiki Waititi (Viago) who also wrote and directed some of 'Flight of the Conchords' also. This movie is truly hilarious, a unique humour that needs to be watched. It is about a group of vampires who live together in Wellington, New Zealand, who have a documentary crew follow them around showing us the inner workings of the lives of vampires, unlike Interview with a Vampire (which i reviewed last month) it is hilarious. The Mockumentary shows the conflict and relationship between the Vampires, who range in age dramatically, and humans in the 21st century. These vampire flatmates are trying to overcome those everyday struggles of being immortal, and feasting on human blood. The age old problem of no matter how much suncream you may think could work, sunlight is a bit of an issue. The movie features them living life both as vampires and flatmates, trying to get into nightclubs, keeping up with the chore wheel and getting along all the time. The comedic execution in they movie is fantastic, with movies like this they can either way, but the cast did it so well. It honestly had me laughing throughout. If you have ever seen anything that is a mockumentary i.e The US Office, you will appreciate this movie a lot, i highly recommend it.
Best mockumentary ever.
Kdosda_Hegen1 May 2020
Usually I dislike mockumentaries, but this one was so unique and funny. The characters were great, the story was interresting. It's a great fun.
Best vampire movie ever
Best comedy of 21st century for sure. Almost all the jokes landed so well and it was hillarious. I love Waititi's humour and can't wait for Jojo Rabbit.
instant classic
I don't remember laughing as hard at a film in years as I did at What We Do In The Shadows the other night. It's pure comedic bliss from front to back, and makes the often tedious chore of making an audience laugh seem effortless. It's part horror comedy, part mockumentary with a dash of buddy camaraderie and and depth of wit and character all it's own, thanks to New Zealand filmmaker Taika Watiti, who is fast becoming one of my favorite new voices in the independent field. A master at finding the humour in little moments and dry subtlety, his cameras spend a couple hours documenting pratfalls, squabbles and zany encounters with quartet of vampires living in Wellington, New Zealand, each one simultaneously a different caricature of bloodsuckers from previous lore, as well as a completely unique, hilarious individual. Jermaine Clement is the closest thing you'll find to a household name amongst the cast as Vladislav, a Dracula esque, baroque vamp. Jonny Brugh is Viago, the musically inclined, Ann Rice incarnation, and Ben Fransham, plays Peter, a spooky eight thousand year old Nosferatu clone. It's Watiti himself who steals the show though, as Deacon, a dandy of a Germanic royal who gets all the best lines and relishes them with adorable deadpan delivery every chance he gets. The film comes nowhere near the classification of horror, and in fact these four resemble a bumbling, lovable frat house, their vampiric nature treated lightly as they cavort about their everyday life like rambunctious nocturnal teddy bears. They navigate household chores, nightlife, inter species relations (there's a few priceless encounters with a rival pack of werewolves), pesky humans, and have a ball the whole time through. What makes the film so special is the goldmine of comic skill and talent that both director and cast have tapped into. The relationships are unforced, full of idiosyncratic nonsense and always feel utterly organic. For a group of undead fellows, they truly are the life of the party. The documentary style never feels intrusive or irritating, seamlessly taking refuge behind the forceful and side splitting antics which take center stage for the entire film. Comedy is the hardest genre to produce fruitful results in, with horror a close second. What it takes to make you laugh can often be a rare gift, wielded by few and far between, those writers, directors and actors who have that elusive midas touch on our funnybones, combining just the right elements of script, improv and intuition to get us laughing ourselves silly. This one achieves that and then some.
New Zealand Mockumentary Delivers
This movie felt like a feature length episode of The Office with a little bit more artsy sets. Taking place in Wellington, it focuses on three vampires sharing a home, biting throats, and hitting clubs. Since they are all hundreds of years old, much of the best comedy comes when they get a new roommate. Having just become a vampire, the character Nick wants all the attention of a reality TV star, causing friction with the conservative elders. We get one of the better lines of the movie when Nick's carelessness results in one of the vampires being "burnt to a sizzle," and he is put on trial. There is some haggling as to just how long his indefinite banishment from the house will last, and his sad departure feels like we're watching the first season of Real World. Besides Nick, the other great side plot involves a group of werewolves. Neither group is especially hardcore, and the two gangs get into frequent confrontations, not unlike the milquetoast showdown in Swingers. It uses hand-held cameras and lots of improvised dialog, two techniques that seem to put a lot of people off. Personally, I enjoy the delivery and timing of the performers enough that I expect I'll be willing to watch it back again and again, indefinitely.
Literally the funniest movie I've ever seen! LOVED it!
This movie is absolutely brilliant! i've watched it a few times and i still enjoy it and laugh out loud every single time. makes me wish these vampires were for real :) The actors are doing an amazing job and the directing and acting are simply brilliant. i hope there will be a sequel or a TV show with these guys cause i cant have enough of them.
Fantastic in the moment.
So i've been a kiwi for a long time now, since I was born. And I somehow hadn't seen what we do in the shadows until a few days ago. I am very familiar with Taika Waititi and Jemaine Clement so I knew what to expect, I got exactly what I was expecting and that's not a bad thing. What we do in the shadows is so clever and so funny. I think the fantastic performances hold this movie together. Taika Waititi, Jemaine Clement and Jonny Brugh give some of my favourite comedic performances ever. All of the line delivery is phenomenal, the physical comedy works brilliantly as well. Most of the gags work for me, but unfortunately a couple of fantastic gags were overused a bit. The gag with the police officers not noticing what's directly in front of them was hilarious the first time, but by the third time it didn't really land. The gag about characters pointing out the documentary crew was also very funny the first couple times but was also used a little too often for my taste. The cinematography and editing were used to great comedic effect and made for some historical gags, documentary style really helped with this. What we do in the shadows is one of my favourite mockumentary, but I don't think I'll be watching it all that often. It's fun in the moment but it's not challenging in any way. I really enjoyed my experience but it doesn't give much to think about when the film is over. I still recommend that you watch it. You can watch it by yourself, I did, but it would be a hilarious group experience.
The best comedy of 2014
Just when you thought there couldn't be another fresh spin out of the overplayed vampire genre, there comes along a small New Zealand mockumentary that manages to feel original and hilarious at the same time. A parody of vampire movies isn't simple to make, just ask the directors of Vampire Sucks, but in What We Do in the Shadows Jemaine Clement and Taika Waititi manage to direct a funny and engaging film about vampires. Clement and Waititi are known for the TV series Flight of the Conchords which Clement has starred in and helped create, while Waititi has directed a couple of episodes. These New Zealand directors also write and star in this film which was mostly improvised (they had over 120 hours of footage which was later edited to under 85 minutes). This is perhaps one of the funniest mockumentaries I've seen since Borat and many have compared it to This is Spinal Tap (but I'm ashamed to admit that I haven't seen it yet). It is very witty and it plays around many of the vampire genre conventions, but it does so with a fantastic sense of humor giving each one of the vampires a distinct personality. It also centers on the day to day domestic life these vampires lead as they live together in a flat and are given specific chores in the home. So in a way it almost plays out as a sort of spoof of The Real World as well considering they have arguments about someone not doing the dishes, or are always giving each other advice as to what to wear for the night, or even making sure they clean up the mess they leave behind from their victims. It's about friendship and learning to live with each other. I was a huge fan of Only Lovers Left Alive which was another engaging vampire film that took a unique spin on the genre, but this is much lighter and is played entirely for laughs. I had a great time and laughed throughout the film. One of the best things about this vampire mockumentary is that they decided to have these four vampires living together in a flat despite being completely different from each other and coming from different backgrounds. There is Viago (Taika Waititi) who is over 300 years old and who came to New Zealand to pursue a love interest, Vladislav (Jemaine Clement) who was once a powerful vampire from the Middle Ages who lost most of his powers to someone he calls the Beast, Deacon (Jonathan Brugh) who is the youngest of the group and who refuses to wash the dishes saying that vampires shouldn't have to, and then there is Petyr (Ben Fransham), a vampire over 8000 years old that looks like Nosferatu. The film centers on these vampires following their every day routines while they are being filmed by a documentary crew. There are several instances where they talk to the camera explaining who they are. While we follow these characters they run in to some other creatures like werewolves, zombies, and even witches, which makes for some funny scenes with quotable lines. Cori Gonzalez-Macuer and Stuart Rutherford also play supporting roles in this film but I don't want to get into too much detail because it is more fun if you simply enjoy the wackiness of everything unfolding before the screen. Mockumentaries and vampire films aren't perhaps something most audiences would be interested in considering they have been overdone in recent years, but the combination of these two genres make for a very entertaining and funny movie. What could've very easily been a one punch joke and lost most of its steam during the first 10 minutes ends up stretching out very well and the jokes continue to feel fresh and inventive. In other hands this could've simply worked as a short film, but Waititi and Clement manage to keep the humor coming throughout the entire 80 minutes. It is a perfectly executed film with many memorable scenes. There is even a scene that seems to be parodying the hall way scene in Inception so there are a lot of different funny things going on in this movie which mostly involve parodying vampire genre conventions.
One joke, but a funny one
What We Do in the Shadows is a mockumentary, made exactly in the style of all those reality-TV documentaries that fill the day-time television. The ones that follow the lives of ordinary people, are filled with people talking on couches or in cars, don't really contain anything of substance and are just pointless projects to blow money on. Except that in this case we follow a household of vampires living in New Zealand. Oh, they still argue about dishes and cleaning, but they also have conversations about laying down newspapers before drinking from someone because it's such a pain to get blood out of the cushions, and lots more. And to be completely honest, that's about it. That's the one joke the film has. But it's a really funny one. All the different vampire clichés are examined and mocked through our main characters from the young rascal of the group, Deacon, who's only 183 years old, to good old Petyr, who's over 8000 years old and lives in a stone coffin in the basement. The film also contains some other mythological creatures and shamelessly makes fun of them as well. To be fair, the one joke starts to grow a bit stale towards the end. I think that the film makers purposefully wanted to end the film without anything too major happening, because that's how all those "real" documentaries end, but it also means that there's not much of a story arc in the film. But, I was still chuckling at the joke even in the very end, so it didn't outlive its welcome. But it was a near thing. Still, the film is very much worth a watch if this is your kind of humour, which you should be able to surmise from what I've told you. If the idea is amusing to you, you're going to enjoy this film a lot.
Funniest movie I've seen in a while!
My stomach still hurts from laughing! If you like the style of the office then this movie is definitely for you! The cast has such chemistry together, you will not be disappointed.
Great, great, great comedy!
Very simple but extremely creative sums up "What We Do in the Shadows" pretty well. That and extremely funny! In the wrong hands, this film could have been a complete mess but with it being written, directed and starring Jemaine Clement and Taika Waititi and having an incredible cast right there with them, the film proved to be a wickedly entertaining feature with tons of laughs throughout the entire run. Everything about this film was awesome to me. The costumes looked great, the makeup was cool, the sets looked excellent, the jokes are top notch stuff, the characters are fun and the acting is fantastic! There was nothing about this film that didn't work for me and it made for a film with a very high replay value.
What We Do In The Shadows highlights the quirky comedic wit of Taika Waititi.
TheMovieDiorama24 February 2018
A man who has rocketed to mainstream fame with 'Thor: Ragnarok', however I find his previous lesser known work to be more enthralling and creatively unique. A faux documentary of a small group of vampires who share a house together. We view their nightly lives but also welcoming a new younger member to the vampiric clan. Have you ever wondered what vampires get up to except sleeping in coffins and drinking the blood of a virgin? Well, this film explores that in the best way possible: comedically. There's nothing funny about a vampire...but a vampire residing in New Zealand? That's a whole different story. It's impossible not to admire the type of eccentric humour that is put into Waititi's films. Quick, sharp and full of wit, the dialogue remains intelligent throughout without having to resort to slapstick. Burst veins causing blood to spray, bat fights, werewolf clans and even the hierarchal structure of master and familiar. Traditional vampiric routines with a hint of edgy fun. Also liked the reference to other vampire films like 'The Lost Boys' and the horrifically terrible 'Twilight'. Did I laugh all the way through? No. Is it as funny as everyone claims it to be? Definitely not. Though the creativity in every scene makes the flick scarily entertaining. Waititi, Clement and Brugh have fang-tastic on screen chemistry. The costume design was authentic, heck even the visual effects were pretty decent considering the low budget. A nice short runtime results in a consistent pace that moves along rapidly. I would've liked to have seen more of a plot offered to keep me enthralled, but I appreciate the direction Waititi and Clement took. A fun intriguing look into the life of a vampire with plenty of comedic wit, albeit slightly overrated. Atleast I laughed at this, shows that I have more life than a vampire!
Just a brilliant documentary-comedy.
f you like Flight of the Conchords then you'll love What We Do in the Shadows. It's a parody documentary that follows the lives of a group of vampires living in Wellington, New Zealand. They each get to tell their story, including their illustrious backgrounds, hitting the city streets, trying to get in to nightclubs, who should do the dishes and confrontations with Wolves. Every character has different background, from Ben Fransham's Nosferatu and Jemaine Clement's goth, to Twilight-esque Deacon and newcomer (and general conflict maker) Nick. This is funny, even when it's not trying to be. Dryer than your everyday comedy, but never decreasing in momentum. FotC's regular Rhys Darby is an absolute scene stealer. A comedy following the lives of the werewolves should be next on their list.
The funniest film I've seen in a long time
To anyone who believes the both the mockumentary and vampire genres have been done to death and have nothing else to offer need look no further than What We Do in the Shadows, the blood-sucking comedy from Kiwi duo Jemaine Clement (Flight of the Concords) and Taika Waititi (Eagle Vs. Shark (2007)). While lampooning the recent Twlight- inspired vampire craze has been done already with the dreadful Vampires Suck (2010), What We Do... manages to be both hilarious and endlessly creative with its take on the genre, managing to deliver some genuine (and surprising) scares along the way. Uber-tidy vampire Viago (Waititi) resides in his decaying mansion with his fellow fang-bearers, Vladislav (Clement), a torture-and- seduction type who was dubbed Vlad the Poker in his heyday, the slobbish Deacon (Jonathan Brugh) who is deluded about his own physical attractiveness, and Nosferatu-lookalike Petyr (Ben Fransham), an 8000-year old who doesn't take too kindly at being awoken from his coffin. They bicker about washing the dishes, go to clubs but can't get in without the bouncers extending them an invitation, and occasionally exchange insults with the local pack of werewolves, led by the polite Anton (Rhys Darby), who reminds his fellow wolves that they're "werewolves, not swearwolves!" Their routine life is shaken by the freshly-turned Nick (Cori Gonzalez- Macuer) and his human friend Stu (Stu Rutherford). Some scenes border on genius - the set-piece involving a terrified and still-human Nick being led to believe he's eating maggots ("I stole that from The Lost Boys,") and chased around the dark and endless mansion by the teleporting and shape-shifting trio achieves more excitement and frights than any full-blooded horror can hope to muster. It mocks and homages the genre, answering questions such as what would vampires search for on the internet? Virgins and sun- rises, obviously. As the blabbermouth Nick inadvertently sets a vampire hunter on their trails and the lovable Stu shows the housemates the delights of modern technology, the film becomes a sweet portrayal of friendship and learning to embrace, or in this case, tolerate diversity. The funniest film I've seen in a long time.
A nice quirky comedy
What a lovely film. It is based on a very simple premise: it is mockumentary on modern time's vampires that are living as roommates in New Zealand. It is very funny and is the perfect example of character comedy. Each vampire being a trope that the film is laughing and commenting on. You get what the film is going to be in the first five minutes. The rest of the runtime is a series of vignettes, of different encounters that the vampire group has, but there is no story to speak of. It is simply a straight "what if" scenario. Yet it works and it is enjoyable and interesting because the film treats the comedy with a straight face. It is a very deadpan sense of humor. Shall I say humour. The movie's jokes are nearly entirely devoted to the vampires being eternal beings full of magic and otherworldly powers being bogged down by mundane and trivial problem like roommates forgetting to do the dishes and not getting into nightclubs. The quality and charm of the movie then comes from its style. The comedy is served brilliantly by the sets and costumes and camera work. It feels cheap and homemade, that is precisely the point, and it gives the film a freshness and authenticity. There are many clever tricks when there is magic or supernatural elements involved. The movie did not need to have these special effects, but it does and it elevates the movie. The jokes being paper thin, you need something more to keep you engaged past the movies introductory scenes. It feels part thesis-film part inside joke between friends. It is very reminiscent of the Belgian gem Man Bites Dog but with better production value and with a reverence to vampire movies. I also just loved watching it for the wonderful accents all the actors have. The film is funny; the film is quirky. It is unabashedly Kiwi.
Vampires, "the new guy", sharing a flat and coming to terms with change.
I love how everyone, not only the main characters, are so naive and clumsy. It's the same with Flight of the Conchords (the TV-show). People blindly accept almost everything being said to them, and even in extreme situations they react with confusion or awkwardness. I think this is what makes the Clement's comedy work, but it required that the audience is willing to accept these unrealistic responses to the crazy scenarios.
The movie plays around with tropes from the vamp	 ire setting, and puts it up against the "living together"-situation which was also used in Flight of the Conchords. This combination is really odd, but they make it work. The storyline is something like: "A new, young guy becomes part of the group, which leads to complications" - but that's all these guys need to make a funny movie.
If anything, the movie could have had a bit more on the line for these characters, if only for the potential for more comedy. There is also a (kind of) serious moment where one character reflects on immortality, and it worked well enough that the movie could have had more of this without losing its comedic charm.
Oh, and Stu seems like a great guy
Bloody Good Fun
Though gouts of blood shoot from necks at times, this "mockumentary" is hilarious. The premise is that a documentary is being made on vampires and a group of flatmates agree gingerly to be the subjects of the film. Gingerly because there is always that pull to dine on humans and the filmmakers will be following them closely. It doesn't take long before the vampire roomies start bickering and nitpicking. They preen in front of the camera, trying to one-up each other as supreme vampire. They stalk their prey, sometimes very ineptly, competing for attention and time and again, making boastful statements that are merely wishful thinking. Jemaine Clement co-directs & stars with Taika Waititi. Clement uses the same sensibilities as he evinced in TVs "Flight of the Conchords". His character, though, is full of studly bravado, which hides an underlying insecurity that he works hard to keep from you. Waititi plays it gently and slightly effeminate, a foppish gentleman concerned with clothing & hair. Jonathon Brugh is the third roomie, a thin-skinned guy always taking offense and grating on others. The fourth is somewhat shy & retiring, as you'll discover yourselves. The vampire jokes come hot & heavy throughout the film. If you've seen some of the scores of vampire movies from the past, you'll delight in getting the inside jokes. However, you don't have to be an expert on bloodsuckers to enjoy watching this movie because it's bloody good fun.
The Vidiot Reviews...
What We Do in the Shadows The hardest part of rooming with another vampire is deciding who gets to sleep in the larger coffin. Luckily, the sleeping arrangements in this comedy have already been decided. On the promise they won't be drained of plasma, a documentary film-crew is permitted to capture the night-to-night activities of a group of vampires (Jemaine Clement, Taika Waititi, Jonathan Brugh, Ben Fransham) sharing a flat in New Zealand. In the shadow of this year's masquerade ball, the roommates must not only contend with the death of their oldest roomy, but also the arrival of a novice vampire and his human friend. A hysterical take on the found-footage genre, this Kiwi contribution perfectly captures the idiosyncratic drawbacks and benefits to being undead - and having roommates. With a clever script connecting the gags seamlessly, this morbid mockumentary has cult classic potential. Ironically, blood-sucking roommates aren't as inclined to vacuum as one would assume.
Absolutely hilarious
Greetings from Lithuania. "What We Do in the Shadows" (2014) is without a doubt the best comedy of 2014. It's flat out hilarious from start till finish. Everything is movie works so well, that it's running time 1h 22 min becomes the fastest running movie in a very long time. This is a superbly made vampire comedy, shoot in mocumentary style. It's bloody, funny, hilarious and hellova entertaining. Acting is superb - everyone here is real, and because around them some outrageous things are happening - they are very funny, Script, direction and acting is by the same guys. From now on I will looking forward for their new creations. Overall, if you like really great horror comedies - this is probably one of the very best I have ever saw. It works as a superb spoof of vampire movies (with running gags of "Twilight", "Dracula", "Nosferatu") as well as a standalone comedy. And werewolves are both superbly funny. Amazing flick.
Excellent idea stretched too thin
I went into this film with the preconceived notion that it was a horror film with comedy elements to it. Not being a fan of the horror genre, I was pleasantly surprised to see that it was the other way around. In fact, I don't think it qualifies as a horror film on any level really, except for a couple of predictable jump scares. 15 minutes in and I was thoroughly enjoying myself. The set design, costumes and imagery throughout this film are fantastic. The attention to detail and the sly nods to the whole genre in general is a treat. Unfortunately, the joke wears a bit thin after a while. The introduction of the werewolves was a nice break, but otherwise there is just too little material that has been stretched too far over the run time. In summary: a great idea, well executed for the most part, but a film that could possibly have benefited from being far more concise so as to not dilute the impact of the general concept. I want to rate it higher than 6, but 7 seems too generous. I'll settle for a 6.5.
Oddly Awesome
What We Do in the Shadows is a hilarious mockumentary that revolves around three house mates, who just happen to be immortal Vampires with a thirst for human blood. An outrageously surreal contrast between the normal streets of Wellington, New Zealand, and the very atypical selection of undead –– including Werewolves, Zombies and Vampires, oh my! The film crew follows the lives of Viago (Taika Waititi), Deacon (Jonathan Brugh), and Vladislav (Jemaine Clement) as they look for their necks victim. Their comedic timing, and performances will leave you in stitches. The camera work is emblematic of the genre, and although some may find it distracting, it rings true in this context. The duration only adds to the overall positive experience of this society- relevant satiric comedy. Almost like an inside-out horror production, it has an abundance of comedy with horror relief, so to speak. An eccentric and imaginative perspective on an over saturated subject.
What we bring to life in illusions
Yes, this is Spinal Tap with vampires and will prove to be as iconic. Yes, it turns familiar vampire lore into day-to-day shenanigans between four vampire bachelors who share a flat, fun from start to finish. We're far from the lofty stage of Hammer, thank goodness. But it could have as easily gone wrong as right; we could have easily felt the crass hand of someone trying to manufacture to specifications. Deliberately designed spoofs and oddities fall short every year. And they get it so right here in matters of placing us. Our entry is that a documentary crew is supposedly filming what we see, following a few days in their life, but that's just a way for us to be placed in "real life", we never really bother with them, nor question the camera. Invisibly submerged. The next gamble was the actors, they got this right too. Vampire lore provides no shortage of hijinks to milk and turn upside down. The real difficulty is fleshing characters who will experience them. Mel Brooks always goes too far the other way. We get here fearsome creatures of the night slash cunning teenagers delighting in mischief slash naive outsiders of the modern world, so we have a foot in three worlds. (in Borat we had one) But the most vital aspect for me - and one I always note in comments - is in the background all around them, the kind of life evoked as playground. We don't have some silly plot significance that we're called to immerse ourselves in, in fact there's no plot here and just situations that come and go. A sense of unconstrained playing around with the fabrics and contexts of illusion, making it up as you go along, not bogged down by anything, now trying to score in a club, now encountering werewolves in a park. Unfettered by narrative and significance, it leaves us free to see it for what it truly is; a few lovable buffoons playing around Wellington with a camera crew tagging along, and this is the actual film as it took shape. We get to see the reality of everyday normalcy around town as an open space to run around in. And no doubt for me this springs from a New Zealand world these people know. So, submersion into world, characters caught in fiction about fiction, and larger view of the surge of life that gives rise to the fiction as free and easy wandering into it. This is good stuff right here folks. Having parsed this, your next stop is Trash Humpers, even more abstractly about wandering. (There's a notion that good cinema will be somber and weigh on our souls with dilemmas of importance. I'd say no such silliness should be allowed into your life; leave that to the potatoheads in film festivals. Isn't cinema nothing more than being able to freely make use of appearances? In Taoism this is called taking each thing as its own measure. We might also venture this view. When life sorts itself out finally, when we've stopped making somber films about the persecution of people because we've stopped persecuting people, we'll be free to run around like New Zealanders making a film.)
Paint Dries In The Shadows Even Without An Audience
I love movies of all types and try to find the good in everything. I have finished watching even the most boring of movies to the end long after my wife has has given up. For example, I finished watching the intolerable "Breaking Wind" although I'll never get that part of my life back. After considering that "What We Do In The Shadows" is a mockumentary and watching for what I thought must surely be almost the entire movie, I was horrified that I was only 20 minutes into it. It was crude, poorly done, and just unwatchable. I turned it off despite having paid to rent it. Save yourself the grief and watch paint dry instead. This movie should have been left in the shadows.
Fun and fangs
"The Unholy Masquerade" is a secret cult event, full of vampires, werewolves and other supernatural creatures that takes place in New Zealand. Only a few days before that, some vampires open the gates of their home for a documentary crew to follow their lives. Viago (Taika Waititi), Deacon (Jonathan Brugh), Petyr (Ben Fransham) and Vladislav (Jemaine Clement) are those vampires, and we shall see how they struggle with issues like being flatmates, doing the house chores and cope with modern day lifestyle; all of this is an overwhelming, funny and bloody adventure. Jemaine Clement is a well-known comedian from New Zealand, co-creator of "Flight of the Concords" (2007-2009), and also known as the villain "Boris the Animal" in the film "Men in Black 3" (Barry Sonnenfeld, 2012). He and Taika Waititi, seen as Ryan Reynolds pal in "Green Lantern" (Martin Campbell, 2011) direct this amazing and funny mockumentary. It is a fresh take on vampires, werewolves and else, who are out of time and out of place, misfits that are actually more human than those seen on more "serious" incarnations. However, there is a possible hiccup here, and it is its that New Zealand scent, that mysterious something the country and culture still has. Once you get immersed into it, there is no way back, you love it. That happens with the humor as well, and I recommend you to watch this and then have your word about it. It might not be a mainstream comedy, but it is funny to dead (or living dead).
Amazing ideas, brilliant and Fangtasticly funny..!
The concept and idea of this movie is nothing but genius and comedy gold. This is filmed mockumentary style. It's about a group of vampires from the old world trying to fit in the new world with a camera crew documenting their nightly lives. The jokes are brilliantly executed and the vampire lures are all here with a modern twist. I honestly highly recommend this for giggles..! The cast and jokes are spot on and right on the mark..! This really does bring something new and old to the table and cast, directors and crew do a fangtastic job (sorry about the pun) Seriously check this out it's not one to miss..!
Just like Twilight (only joking... thankfully)
A film about vampires. My first thought – oh... another one – great. Add the fact that it's a 'mockumentary' i.e. a spoof documentary filmed in a 'fly-on-the-wall' kind of fashion. My first thought – oh, another one – great. Yes, there is truly nothing original about 'What We Do in the Shadows' – a spoof documentary, charting the lives of four ancient vampires, currently flat-sharing in modern day New Zealand. Perhaps the generally lack of originality was what made me watch it with such low expectations. In any case... I was more than pleasantly surprised. It was actually really good. In short... it was funny. It takes a lot for a 'comedy' film to actually make me laugh and this one pulled it off. Yes, there's absolutely nothing 'idea-wise' that we haven't seen before, but with a sharp, satirical script, that doesn't matter. It's just such a daft, fun film that anyone who has a love of the horror/vampire genre will definitely enjoy it. You do need to know a little bit in general about vampire films. Naturally, there are more than a few jokes based on the general Dracula legend that might go over your head if you haven't seen the film or read the book. Yes, most of the vampires are pretty stereotypical (for undead blood-suckers) and you should recognise their 'types' among the genre. But, as I say, it's simply the comedy that saves this film from potentially being just mediocre. If you enjoy your horror/vampire yarns, relax your brain and put this one. It really is simply amusing. Special credit to the wonderful scenes with the swearwolves... sorry WERE wolves. Classic.
A fun twist on the vampire genre
What We Do in the Shadows is a highly entertaining take on the vampire genre. The cast of this mockumentary obviously had a good time making it, and it shows. This movie isn't non-stop laughs, but there are plenty of humorous moments to enjoy. I will definitely be thinking about this movie the next time I see a vampire onscreen.
So I reluctantly decided to watch this film, that had oh such good ratings from critics and audiences alike. What did I see? Well, level of production inferior to some of YouTube videos nowadays, for starters. Everything looks dirt-cheap with laughable effects and poor camera work. I read that the budget was 1.6 million dollars, yet it looks 1.59 million dollars cheaper. But it's not just about the looks, right? It's a comedy, after all, it's the writing that matters! Well unfortunately the jokes here are pure sh*t mostly. It's all dirt-cheap puns about how werewolves act like dogs, so they smell and run after sticks. Or how these guys are vampires, so they can't wear silver necklases as it burns, and they bite people. Oh wow, my belly just hurts so much from all the laughter. There's also some unnecessary vulgarity, which doesn't really help anything. The only reasons this was not a 1/10 are that were like 2 moderately amusing gags, and the whole thing lasts less than an hour and a half, so while it is a tedious bore, it's not as long as it could've been. I heard about this movie after its director and writer Taika Waititi (or whatever) was praised for "bringing his charm and wit" to Thor Ragnarok, which I'm yet to watch. Well if Thor Ragnarok has the same level of humor as this than it's likely also borderline unwatchable trash. After the credits one of the characters says something along the lines of "You will forget the contents of this movie". I wish I did, honestly.
Clever vampire parody
Ever wonder how vampires always manage to look so spiffy and dapper in their appearance and attire even though they can't see themselves in a mirror? This and many similarly pressing ghoul-related questions are addressed in "What We Do in the Shadows," a macabre mockumentary about four roommates (Ben Fransham, Jemaine Clement, Taika Waititi, Jonathan Brugh), sharing a home in New Zealand, who just happen to be bloodsucking creatures-of-the-night. Eventually, they're joined by Nick (Cori-Gonzalez Maceur), an unsuspecting victim who comes over for "dinner" one night, then pals around with them after his transformation, and Stu (Stu Rutherford), Nick's human friend whose genuine likability keeps the foursome from turning him into one of them. Written and directed by Clement and Waititi, "What We Do in the Shadows" is a fitfully amusing parody of all the conceits and tropes of a genre that has become a mainstay of popular culture in recent years - and that's putting it mildly. Some of those works have even been satirical in nature, but "Shadows" ups the ante by setting its spoofery in the context of one of those slice-of-life documentaries so dear to the hearts of reality-TV aficionados everywhere. Like "The Addams Family" and "The Munsters," "Shadows" derives much of its humor from the domestication of our own bogeymen and fears, as well as the incongruity of a bunch of centuries-old (in one case, millenia-old) undead creatures living and relating in the modern world. Yet, while the humor is decidedly dark in nature - there is no stinting on graphic bloodletting being performed on innocent victims - it's also very clever, even though the movie does hit a point of diminishing returns after awhile, perhaps inevitably, given its somewhat self-restricting one-joke premise. Ultimately, though, it's an original and fun celebration of male camaraderie and bonding - even in its most outlandish form.
Hilarious
Funny throughout. Different and unique. Clever and entertaining, especially if you are familiar with vampires. Also a well-made movie with good directing, which is surprising for a mocumentary-style comedy. (4 viewings, 2/21/2022)
Bloody fun and amusing time
This is a very amusing mockumentary style movie that focuses in on a few vampires that act like brothers. And their dynamics with one another when it comes to doing choirs, when new comers get involved and how they go about dealing with humans. I didn't particularly find this to be hilarious, but I got a few laughs out of it and it was very amusing to sit through. Maybe it's because the actors played their parts so well to the point it just came off very natural. Maybe it's their personalities in real life, but the interactions came off amusing and natural. It really did seem like it's how the actors in this would act like if they were vampires. The executions when it comes to the vampire elements onto screen is very cleverly done. It's like they thought up a lot of fun and creative ideas when it comes to the vampire myths and mashed it all together into a mockumentary. But the thing is, it all works together fluently and it all fits together. To describe this mockumentary, it's like a mix of "The Office", "Borat" and "Napoleon Dynamite" when it comes to the dynamics and vibe of it all. It start to slightly drag an hour in but overall it was a bloody good time.
All about Stu.
'What We Do In The Shadows (2014)' is pretty much the best 'mockumentary' I've seen, especially in terms of its 'documentary' aesthetic. From the subtle camera-light illuminating the characters to the expert use of story-telling stock-photos to a brilliant black-and-white 'recreation', this film feels like a 'real' documentary right the way through. This is contrary to most movies of the kind, which usually lose their way in the second act or break the illusion with impossible shots that should reveal the camera-men but don't. It's also the main reason, I feel, why the experience works so well. Everything just feels so 'real' and the satire is certainly on-point. The piece pokes fun at all types of vampire and their tropes, using its five core bloodsuckers to take specific aim at archetypes seen within 'Nosfetstu (1922)', 'Dracula (1931)', 'Bram Stoker's Dracula (1992)', 'Interview With The Vampire: The Vampire Chronicles (1994)' and 'Twilight (2008)'. Of course, it also jabs at various clichés from across the myriad of movies that make use of the wider vampire mythos. On top of all this, it pokes fun at both typical 'flat-mate' youth-culture and documentaries at large, so it has quite a lot to sink its teeth into. Thankfully, it hits a deep vein. It's remarkably funny on numerous occasions. Even when it isn't 'laugh-out-loud', its satire is more than clever enough to be appreciated. It paints a believable portrait of modern-day vampires in a way that works even if you haven't seen a horror movie before - though, obviously the experience is infinitely enhanced if you have. It's performances are actually quite subtle; they're remarkably restrained and wonderfully wholistic considering that they consist of mainly improvised material. The same can be said of the entire affair, I suppose, as it tells a cohesive, if ever-so-slightly 'skit'-based story. The special-effects are also remarkably good. They're consistently convincing and incredibly imaginative. On the whole, this is a very entertaining feature with a unique central conceit that's executed in a charming and suitably low-key way. It's smart, funny and generally likeable.
'What We Do in the Shadows' is one of the most original films to have come out recently. Its a terrific Mockumentary/Horror-Comedy, that left me in splits. Its beautifully innovative & amazingly entertaining. 'What We Do in the Shadows' Synopsis: Viago, Deacon, and Vladislav are vampires who are finding that modern life has them struggling with the mundane - like paying rent, keeping up with the chore wheel, trying to get into nightclubs, and overcoming flatmate conflicts. 'What We Do in the Shadows' takes Indie Cinema ahead, with pride. This is a film that needs to be watched & enjoyed. For its innovation & sincerity, this critical darling deserves some real respect. I had ball & also had my share of envy, as such an ingenious Script is rare to find. Taika Waititi & Jemaine Clement's Screenplay is first-class. Its an extremely well-done Screenplay, that is high on novelty & laughs. Watching Vampires go at it with Werewolves, has never been so much fun! Waititi & Clement's Direction, on the other-hand, feels realistic. Cinematography & Editing are perfect. Performance-Wise: Waititi & Clement are brilliant actors too! They enact the vampires with a heart, with such zeal & effortlessness, its hard not to be awed by them. Jonathan Brugh is first-rate. Ben Fransham is superb. Others lend great support. On the whole, 'What We Do in the Shadows' is not to be missed! Its daringly original & crazily entertaining! Two Big Thumbs Up!
Unique film concept on Vampires and other creatures
What We Do in the Shadows is a comedy/horror focusing mainly on a group of vampires living together in modern New Zealand. There are also some other creatures briefly included like werewolves and zombies. The idea is unique and there are definitely some funny moments. For example the vampires are learning about the internet and social media. Vladislav is taught how to poke people on Facebook, "Yes do it, let's poke her"! There's another scene where they have a house meeting to discuss chores and cleanliness. Viago comments on how he puts down towels and newspaper when killing his victims to not ruin the furniture. He expects the others to do the same. All of the actors have really done a great job getting into character; especially Taika Waititi as Viago and Jermaine Clement as Vladislav. For me the biggest problem with the movie is that there really is not much of a plot. The majority of the film is improvised and it moves from scene to scene without much direction. The characters and scenarios are very well done but it doesn't work for me as a full length movie.
Ideal Mockumentary
If you enjoy mockumentaries such as The Office and Parks & Rec, this is the perfect mockumentary for you. This is a documentary parody about vampires! Done by a couple of the guys from The Flight Of The Conchords hit comedy show on HBO, this documentary style film is the awkward satire you love. Artfully crafted nuanced uncomfortably awkward situations abound in this parody of vampire movies. It is an intelligent and interesting humor that is very unique and different from anything you have ever encountered. This film is highly entertaining and a lot of fun.
Tasteful, fun and creative
Chockful of witty situational comedy and some slightly graphical gore scenes. Highly recommended
Why i didn't laugh at all? Oh, i see...because it was the biggest bullshit in the world!!!
I am not judging because of cinematography, because of the picture was very well and also their make up. i know i am pretending with such compliments but what else to say? It is really the most waster time of my life with such idiot scenario and this senseless acting without ingoing and outgoing somewhere. Pointless! It is a very big shock for me to watch that absurd horror movie. i still don't understand why they throw money for nothing? I accept that not everything is for everyone. I did read some reviews when people laughed loudly a lot a lot and a lot and i wish i was any of them. The most stupid characters with a messy story around them following nothing with their dialog.
Mockumentary of vampire life in New Zealand.
The initial tableaux: Four vampires live in a flat together in New Zealand. Viago (from the 18th century) was a European dandy before he turned, and is the fussy one. Deacon (183 years old) had been a vampire Nazi, and needed to leave Europe after the war. Petyr is some 8 thousand years old, and does not get out much. Vlad is a bit older than Viago, but considerably younger than Petyr. Vlad was a noble who commanded armies and could do all sorts of animal transformations. Viago, Vladislav, and Deacon prepare for a night out in Wellington. They cannot get into most clubs because they have to be invited in. However, there is a club just for vampires. Jackie is Deacon's familiar. She does all sorts of scut work for him, such as procuring victims, washing dishes, and whatever else. After Petyr turns Nick, the main part of the story begins. Delineation of conflicts: The vampires' night life activities in Wellington bring them into contact with humans. This is pretty limited until Nick joins them and is still able to get into the newer night clubs. They encounter werewolves and the changed relationships with their old friends. Nick does not feel any need for secrecy, which rather disturbs the older vampires. Jackie wants Deacon to change her to vampire, but Deacon prefers she remain his familiar. Deacon does not treat her well, either. Nick's friend Stu introduces them into the Internet, WiFi enabled devices, selfies, and online social media. To add to the fun, Nick's loose lips attracts the attention of a vampire hunter who breaks into the house. Petyr kills him, but is in turn struck by full sunlight, which kills him. The noise gets the notice of the local police, who give them safety violations. Resolution: The supernatural takes its course in a number of ways.
A documentary crew follows vampires (who are flatmates in a New Zealand city) during their nightly routines, capturing them as they awaken, hunt for human food, attempt to get in clubs, opening up about themselves in interview segments, how they react to werewolves, their messy situations during bloody feedings, prepare for an "unholy masquerade", befriend an IT computer analyst (human) they bond with while the one that introduced him to them (recently turned) becomes a major nuisance, and contend with the dangers of their undead secret getting out where it shouldn't. Clever, witty, with a sense of humor; this fun little gem turns both the vampire genre and found footage genre on their head.
Two of the most popular horror subgenres merging in a fine synchronicity with some amusing observations caught on camera: (a) how the vampires deal with two cops who answer a call about disturbances, (b) a human young man that was supposed to only be food for the vampires to feed from being kept alive by the oldest vampire of the flat really often wearing out his welcome due to his big mouth, telling practically anyone who would listen of his status as a bloodsucker, (c) how protecting a human becomes increasingly difficult, especially at a party room full of vampires just ready to go into a blood-drinking frenzy, (d) how flying around might be cool but it could lead to being seen by the wrong onlookers, (e) how a patient human slave has been waiting for her master to turn her, cleaning up the bloody messes, ironing their clothes, mowing their lawn, even dutifully selecting humans to be lunch for the vampires (!), (f) being introduced to the internet, a vampire's forlorn desire to being romantically tied to a woman he followed to New Zealand, eventually winning her 96 year old heart (!), (g) how being around werewolves when the full moon emerges in the sky is not a good situation for even vampires (or camera operators with the vampires!), and (h) the awful results of a vampire eating chips which has quite the back alley vomit.
A documentary about vampires, their habits and behavior night to night, and conveying their unique, distinct personalities, particularly when talking to the camera (and, essentially, us, the viewing audience), offers some insight into where they came from, what they expect, and the positives and negatives for having eternal life but being restricted by the limits that come with the "undead lifestyle". The passive, inert Stu, the welcomed human among the vampires (who speak candidly and nonchalantly about their killing humans for the blood they need to satiate their appetite), is quite a sight among the more chatty, vocal vampires who never fail to embellish or distance themselves from the camera and what it entails. The special effects are good when depended upon (Nick's inability to conceal his newfound vampirism, and his taking flight; an actual "batfight" between Nick and rival Deacon (who thinks Nick is "stealing his style", and the luring of an actual vampire hunter to their domain results in the sunlight death of one of their own; the vampires being everywhere in their flat as Nick tries to escape them before being turned by Max Schreck-lookalike, Petyr; Viago's always hitting the main artery causing bloody messes), but it is the cast that makes this a real treat. Petyr, whose appearance is modeled after Schreck (from Nosferatur) or Reggie Nalder (of Salem's Lot), is genuinely scary, but how the film even gets humor out of him, in just the way he differs in personality to the others (he stays mostly in his basement, and when Viago attempts to talk with him, he gets a shriek), those who made this film deserve kudos. Vlad's diminished power due to a romantic split that left him damaged is certainly amusing when he tries to render others under a spell, failing miserably. But it is how the film is shot as a document of these unique characters that gives this a significant charm.
"Bat fight!"
I almost passed this sly gem by since vampires haven't been interesting since "Twilight" ruined the genre for adults and drained the life out of the genre. Still, having read good things about WWDITS, I gave it a chance and discovered a terrific mockumentary of the travails of being undead in this day and age. This is the worthy successor to Roman Polanski's "Fearless Vampire Killers" (1967), the only vampire spoof that ever really worked...until now. Certainly the mockumentary is by now a cliché of its own, with "Spinal Tap" still winner and champion. WWDITS doesn't claim to challenge that epic, instead, it takes a charming and old-fashioned approach to simply having a "protected" film crew (they all wear crucifixes) follow the daily/nightly routine of four undead and watch them interact, as well as give solo interviews. Viago, Deacon, Vladislav, and Peytr have lived (sort of) through the ages, yet can't quite get the ability to function in a world that has passed them by. Each is trapped in the era in which they died and were transformed. Watching them forced to take on a fifth member of the clan, who started as dinner, is where the real fun starts. Nick, the new guy, is annoying and not dealing well with his transition. His comeuppance is that his human friend, Stu, becomes beloved of the other vampires. They like him better than Nick, which brings its own tension to the table. Jokes are thrown at the viewer fast and furious. Not all of them work, but most do. Very well done sets, costumes, and well placed special effects do wonderful work supporting some stellar performances here. Of note is Taika Waititi as Viago, looking like the picture of Hammer vampire elegance. Also, Jemaine Clement as Vladislav, who brings Dracula realness to the party. These two actors, known best for "Flight of the Conchords" wrote and directed this fast-moving slapstick look at the ultimate misfits. Not only are all the well known tropes about vampires trotted out and skewered, but affectionate nods to other cinematic bloodsuckers are generously provided. Most notable is the ball/party sequence near the end, which is a real tribute to Polanski, even though they don't have the gorgeous late Sharon Tate to work with. Bloody, funny, silly (the Procession of Shame gets the prize here), and worth a look if you think the Undead don't have problems. It's your turn to do the dishes.
A refreshing comedy
This film is shot in a documentary style, on the lives of a group of Vampires in Wellington, New Zealand.
I got recommended by a friend to watch "What We Do in the Shadows", and I am glad to have watched it! A fake documentary is not new, but one on lives of vampires is certainly new. It is really fun to watch. I love the accents of the vampires! The whole plot is hilarious, especially the fact that they are portrayed as humans. It's like they are actually nothing to be scared about, because they still have to take part in flatmate meetings and wish the dirty dishes! Stu the human is very funny as well, because he is so wooden despite being in such a bizarre situation. Nick the new vampire is quite annoying, but that is of course part of the story.
Hilarious Mockumentary on the New Zealand Undead Scene
Who doesn't live a good mockumentary? Plenty of people, I suppose, but I'm not here on their behalf and I enjoy them. WHAT WE DO IN THE SHADOWS comes from Taika Waititi and Jemaine Clement and is presented as a sort of undead version of MTV's "The Real World". A team of documentarians, wearing crucifixes and given the solemn promise that none of them would be eaten, enters the New Zealand flat of four vampires to give perspective on their day-to-day lives, culminating in an annual gathering of the local undead chapters (including witches and zombies) to celebrate the Unholy Masquerade. As the film opens, we are introduced to its subjects: Viago (Waititi), Vladislav (Clement), Deacon (Jonny Brugh), and Petyr (Ben Fransham) a group of friendly vampires whose lives span multiple centuries. We join them as they handle chore distribution, engage in the local Wellington nightlife, feed on the unsuspecting populace, and harass the local werewolves. They appear to have a pretty good handle on things until one of their intended meals escapes and returns months later to reveal that, thanks to an overzealous Petyr, he's been turned into a vampire. Nick (Cori Gonzalez-Macuer) forms an uneasy friendship with the flatmates, primarily because his human friend Stu (Stu Rutherford) is a pretty cool guy, but he's having a hard time grasping the subtleties of being undead and his boisterous nature brings a world of trouble for this group of bloodsuckers who are just trying to live peaceful lives as ancient vampires in a modern world. Personally, I found this movie to be loads of fun and have enormous replay value. I've seen it a few times now and I laugh just as hard each time. I'll admit, I get some extra enjoyment from the film because a few of my friends are in to vampire LARPing (live-action roleplay) and I can't help but think of them every time. WHAT WE DO IN THE SHADOWS has fun with all of the classic vampire clichés we've come to expect since the time of Dracula. We've grown so accustomed to vampires (in movies, anyhow) being cool, sexy, and flawless but this movie gives us a much more flawed, realistic approach. Why should vampirism automatically make someone supernaturally cool? Viago is a nineteenth-century dandy with an effeminate nature and a frustration over how his flatmates can't be bothered to lay towels down when draining their victims on his furniture. With the exception of Petyr (a traditional Nosferatu living in the basement), Vlad is the eldest vampire and obviously based more on the Dracula lore. He once prided himself on his shape-shifting abilities but he's been out of practice since a humiliating defeat at the hands of his arch-nemesis long ago. And then Deacon, while not as old as Vlad or (I believe) as young as Viago, seems to the have the more modern sensibilities. He's an unabashed slob, failing to complete his chores and often shoveling them off onto his poor familiar Jackie (Jackie van Beek) while dragging her along with promises of immortality. From everything I've seen and read from behind the scenes, most of WHAT WE DO IN THE SHADOWS was improvised by the cast with a skeletal script just to give the story some structure. As much as I enjoy the films of Judd Apatow and his circle, compare them to what was accomplished here. This film is riotously funny from the opening moments with Viago's alarm going off at 6PM with hardly a moment over the entire 90 minutes that let's up the pace. And it was mostly accomplished on-set, in front of the cameras, with the cast riffing off one another. I love that. I love that the effects are cheap but charmingly so. When these guys fly, it's clumsy. Not necessarily because the characters can't control their flight but because the actors are lifted on wires and it's hard to control and they roll with it. Viago and Deacon get into a heated argument in the flat meeting at the beginning of the movie and launch into the air to get in each other's faces; just watch how sloppy Viago's landing is when he returns to his seat. It's little bits like that that give me added enjoyment. WHAT WE DO IN THE SHADOWS is one of the funniest movies of 2015 and I wish it had gotten more attention so we could ensure these guys return for more of their off-kilter brand of humor. Big recommend from me.
Smoothless guilty pleasure
Without unnecessary plot and the simplicity I really enjoy the unexpected stories lead to. The character well built with exceptional settings. This mockmentary definitely being my perfect guilty enjoyment.
Insufferable
I survived 20 minutes of this. Comedy is the most subjective of the genres therefore, talking too much about this is pointless. The movie has one objective: making you laugh with all kind of jokes, from physical to silly ones and others more layered ones. But none of them worked for me. And in trying to do that, It was a huge failure. I didn't laugh once and I was annoyed a couple of times for every minute. In the end, Epic Fail.
Love this movie
It is perfect. I love all the characters. It's hilarious, entertaining, well done.
I'm so confused.....
Why does everyone love this? Why do you all find it so hilarious? I don't think I laughed once during this. I like the idea of a vampire mockumentary thing, interesting idea but I feel like the main point was for it to be funny. I just didn't find it that funny. Maybe this was so ridiculously overhyped or it just isn't on my humour wavelength. Honestly so disappointed.
Nails the mockumentary genre - hilarious
WHAT WE DO IN THE SHADOWS is a fake documentary following a group of vampires who have a shared living arrangement in a worn-down mansion in New Zealand. One of the new members brings a human into their group, which causes all sorts of troubles. An adventure filled with magic, werewolves and vampires ensues. WHAT WE DO IN THE SHADOWS is one of the funniest movies I've seen since quite a while. The characters are plain hilarious, and each one is unique and also relatable. The characters are essentially just hyper-clichéd stereotypes, such as the German pedantic vampire with a penchant for organizing his friends' lives, or the sex crazed vampire master with a craving for torture. Yet, despite being such stereotypes, each character is quite believable—in part achieved through the great (and hilarious) performances. The movie exudes a sense of play and joy. It certainly doesn't take itself too seriously, but it's also not too silly to be dumb. A comedy like this falls or rises with the wittiness of its jokes and in this one, all the jokes are spot on. Definitely worth watching!
Best Comedy of 2015
Even though I really dislike the fount footage genre, What We Do in the Shadows proves there are still a few useful ideas yet to be discovered in the subgenre. The movie has been praised as one of the best comedies of the year by many critics, and it certainly lives up to that title. Shadows is a breath of fresh air in the comedy/horror department. Though I can certainly see some people having a problem with the deadpan humor, a lot of the comedy comes from the cultural differences from the extremely old vampires (some dating back to the Medieval Times) as they struggle to keep up with current times. Basically the movie will mostly likely be a bust for you if you are someone who doesn't find the general idea of a bunch of vampires struggling to fit into today's society funny. But it totally worked for me and I loved how they were stuck in the past (decor, clothing style, appliances, etc) and needed a new member to bring them up to speed. But that new member unfortunately is the weakest point of Shadows, Nick is by far the least interesting character and/or aspect of the movie. He is the one character who is there to advance the story so he's more or less necessary, which is bittersweet. But outside of that complaint, Shadows is a blast and one of the years best so far. The writers/actors really utilize the flying aspect the vampires possess and create some solid humor with it. They poke fun at just about every single vampire trope you can think of, not having a shadow, virgins, flying, vampire hunters, and many more. Not to mention the numerous jokes about todays current vampire movies, there are a few but they're pretty funny! So if you are someone (like me) who is sick of todays growing trend of vulgar and gross-out comedies, What We Do in the Shadows is just what we've been waiting for!
Werewolves not Swearwolves
This was something I stumbled across almost by accident and is one of the funniest films I have seen for years. The documentary style combines with absurd, macabre humour and brilliant comic acting performances to produce what I suspect will become a cult classic along the lines of Withnail & I and Spinal Tap. The story of a small group of vampires 'flatting' in the Wellington area of New Zealand, their back histories spoken to camera, and the lead up to the Unholy Masquerade result in some truly hilarious set- pieces and complications such as who is responsible for doing the dishes and how best to be 'invited' into the hottest nightclubs in the city on a night out. A couple of the cast members are known through their performances in 'The Flight of the Concords' but others were, to me at least, unknowns and all turn in masterful performances without exception. The music score is integral to the movie and used in a similar way to, say Pulp Fiction, in setting the scenes and adding polish. There are lines of dialogue that will become, if they're not already, classics to those in the know. This really is a laugh out loud, ludicrous movie. Hugely original and, I suspect, the result of a lot of hard work edited down to a marvellous feast of black comedy.
lame and cringe-worthy
So i tried to watch this film yesterday without being biased as i haven't read anything about it, nor did i watch the trailer. Usually i like bad films because they make me laugh. It's like a bad joke, you can't help laughing at how bad it is. However "What We Do in the Shadows" is so extreme lame and cringe-worthy you will be tempted to switch it off halfway through which is something i rarely ever do. To sum it up, absence of talent can be really amusing, but in this case it's just awful and painfully unbearable. The overwhelming spam of fake 10 out of 10 reviews for this disaster of a comedy on this very site is funnier than any joke/sketch/dialogue in the film. Don't be fooled!
Both horrendously grotesque and brilliantly hilarious!
'WHAT WE DO IN THE SHADOWS': Four and a Half Stars (Out of Five) A mockumentary about four centuries-old vampires, living in a flat together and trying to adapt to modern life (in New Zealand). It was written and directed by Taika Waititi and Jemaine Clement (of 'FLIGHT OF THE CONCHORDS' fame). Waititi and Clement also star in the movie; along with Jonathan Brugh, Ben Fransham, Cori Gonzalez- Macuer, Stu Rutherford and Rhys Darby. It's both horrendously grotesque and brilliantly hilarious! Viago (Waititi), Vladislav (Clement), Deacon (Brugh) and Petyr (Fransham) are four vampires, who have been around for centuries, that all share a flat together; in Wellington. They've decided to allow a film crew to film them, for a documentary, and have promised not to kill any of them. They go out clubbing at night, to hunt down humans for food (and party), and stay in their flat during the day (to avoid the deadly sunlight). Viago narrates the documentary and explains how the four vampires have attempted to adapt to modern life. The movie is a very dark comedy; the vampires do kill innocent humans (for food) and make others be their slaves (while promising to turn them into vampires, one day). It's gory and pretty true to most vampire mythology. I was really impressed with how the filmmakers were able to do this, while still making an extremely funny movie (it's hilarious)! The mockumentary format is perfect for delivering the jokes with; and the acting and directing are brilliant. I look forward to seeing more from Waititi and Clement, in the future.
Is this point missing?
I mean, who wants to see a fake documentary movie of vampires and others watching them do these tasks? Some geek I imagine. I really like to see these characters scary. But here, neither fear nor anything, well yes, sleepy, very sleepy.
Spoiler:
See the actors clearly disguised, because the truth is that one thing is to be low budget, but this is a lot. Surely it became cult, are usually bad films overrated and this will be. I do not like the actors talk to the camera and in this case, clear to be false documentary, so imagine, half a movie talking on camera.
The truth is I do not know if someone opens who wants to see these characters do household chores, I'm bored a lot. I have enough to do them myself. But it is that the actors are very bad and the effects, better nor we speak, can not be worse. We can not even rid the wardrobe, because it would have to look like they are real and be seen in disguise.
When they are going to make a dinner and they are going to eat them. The spectator does not think, and they stay there? What nonsense, nobody goes running.
Like Onur Tukel's SUMMER OF BLOOD, WHAT WE DO IN THE SHADOWS caught me totally by surprise. I'd heard absolutely nothing about it and was as pleasantly surprised as I'd been by the former. Too bad so-called "serious" vampire movies aren't half as good as the comedies these days... Petyr, the Max Shreck look-alike, almost managed to steal the show simply by LOOKING like an "8,000-year-old vampire;" the makeup's THAT impressive (as is his costume); but my favorite has to be Viago, the "dandy." His "happily-ever-after" moment at film's end was very sweet. I also liked the closing spell: "You will forget everything you have just seen..." Recommended.
Suck it Twilight
I saw Thor ragnarok and loved it. I saw flight of the conchords and loved it. When I saw this movie I came to the conclusion that taika and jemaine are filmmaking geniuses. Just the first line ' it's 6pm at night time' made me love the movie instently. 10/10. Vampires dont do dishes, Brilliant.
A Wickedly Entertaining And Bitingly Clever Trip To The Long White...Vampire
Don your crucifix and come take a hilariously unholy trip to Wellington, New Zealand where you will meet four of the most dysfunctional yet intriguing beings of the undead. There's Viago (Taika Waititi) who, at 379 years old, still struggles to get out of his coffin when woken by his alarm at 6:00; Vlad (Jermaine Clement), an 862 year old hypersexual incubus who has a soft spot for torture and debauchery; Petyr (Ben Fransham), Count Orlok's long lost 8000 year old brother, and Deacon (Jonathan Brugh), the rebellious bad boy and baby of the family at 183. That isuntil Petyr accidentally bites local hipster Nick (Cori Gonzalez- Macuer). Written and directed by Clement (FLIGHT OF THE CONCORDS) and Waititi (GREEN LANTERN), WHAT WE DO IN THE SHADOWS is a wickedly entertaining and bitingly clever mockumentary about the pleasures and pitfalls of vampires living together in a modern world. Each scene is a testament to their wit and demands your attention such as the flatmate meeting between Viago, Vlad and Deacon in which the latter is confronted about not pulling his weight when it comes to washing dishes. After Vlad exclaims that Deacon has 'not washed the dishes for five years', Viago concurs 'that it is unacceptable to have so many bloody dishes all over the bench' just as the scene cuts to an image of an over-flowing sink piled high with bloody crockery. Equally funny is the scene in which the vampires get dressed up for a night on the town and reflect upon their personal styles from Viago not knowing what he looks like due to their lack of a reflection to Vlad deadpanning directly to the camera of his 'dead but delicious' look. The pace at which the pop-culture vampire barbs and homages flow is counter-balanced nicely by the plot's simplicity and minimalist special effects (the bat scene is well done). Likewise, there is a nice juxtaposition between the rich and stylised costuming settings that are somehow hauntingly delicate and the childlike whimsy of the characters within the frame. Even their clichéd supernatural friends (werewolves, zombies) and Vlad's ex- girlfriend a.k.a the beast are uncomplicated characters with amusing one-liners. With just the right balance of comedy and horror, this is a bloody fantastic film figuratively and literally and definitely worth watching. You may even have to see it twice to make up for the moments you missed whilst laughing too hard.
The best mockumentary in years
For years, Christopher Guest ("This Is Spinal Tap," "Best in Show") was the creator and sole proprietor of mockumentaries, but New Zealanders Taika Waititi and Jemaine Clement ("Flight of the Concords") have left their mark on the genre with "What We Do in the Shadows," a feature-length version of their 2005 short film that centers of three vampires who live in Wellington as flatmates. Viago (Waititi), Deacon (Jonny Brugh) and Vladislav (Clement) are all vampires born various centuries ago who found their way to an old house in New Zealand where they live with the Nosferatu-esque vampire Petyr (Ben Fransham) in the basement. They deal with typical roommate issues like who isn't pulling their weight cleaning blood off the dishes and helping each other figure out what to wear to the bars at night because they can't see themselves in a mirror. This down-to-earth, contemporary portrayal of vampires makes "Shadows" one of the better and most original riffs on a sub-genre that over the last 10 years has been sucked dry, pun intended. The characters are just dudes who happen to like frilly Gothic shirts and need blood to survive, and life can be as awkward for them as it is for humans, just in (very) different ways. This conceit really drives the success of the film and provides a focus for the actors' improvisation. Waititi, Brugh and Clement all create distinctive characters whose personalities extend beyond their vampire characteristics. They are all somehow relatable despite being larger than life and totally peculiar. The story deals in both real-world realms like Wellington nightclubs and imagined ones such as the secret subcultures of vampires and other classical creatures, including werewolves. Simultaneously, it caters to fans of these sub-genres and to fans of contemporary comedy. It's a smooth blend that works surprisingly well, though the plot isn't nearly as compelling as waiting for whatever clever bit might come next. Equally well-incorporated are the use of practical and visual effects. Waititi and Clement employ both judiciously and effectively and it earns the film its horror stripes alongside the more immediately apparent comedic ones. "Shadows" does dip into silly B-movie habits that it shouldn't feel compelled to resort to, but the wit, talent and clever dialogue keeps it elevated from similar low- budget horror comedy efforts.
Absolutely fun and enjoyable vampire effort
Asked to follow a group of vampires, a group of filmmakers seeing how they live together in a small flat capture their attempt to train a new recruit into their ranks at the house who turns their lives upside down as they try to survive in the modern-day age. This one was a rather enjoyable and incredibly funny horror comedy. One of the better elements here is the fact that this one manages to be a rather enjoyable and hilarious satire on reality shows with how this one presents the main group here. The fact that they're still decidedly old-school style vampires of the classical mold, with the aristocratic and debonair types still obsessed with the style from their death- year which conflicts wildly with the way they live as the more modern society with these issues. Their struggles to come to grips with those issues, finally forcing a human friend to help them out with the jump into the new technological age and how they're able to get the different societies able to come to terms with the modern-day world which is all sorts of hilarious. That greatly compliments the other strong aspects of this one in the fact that there's a lot of really great laughs at the expense of the group as there's a lot of fun to be had poking fun at vampire culture with the odd-couple dynamic at play with all of the humorous work here. There's the fact that all the different ways for them to fly around the apartment building dealing with their human-like squabbling, their constant ability of using their powers to perform menial everyday tasks and making sure the camera crew captures them at the middle of their inherent goofiness all making for an utterly uproarious time with the sight-gags and visual humor becoming such a fun time in this one. It still doesn't forget it's about vampires, as there's quite a bit here regarding their rather obvious powers bringing the attacks on the humans they find out in the clubs, the different encounters with the bullies and the big encounter in the society dance which is fun with all the different creatures coming together into a really enjoyable time which is all the more fun with the action-packed sequence afterward of the gang encounters werewolves in the woods. There's really only one part of this that it tends to peter out a tad with the finale that doesn't really make much sense in just wrapping up with an anti-climatic sense of conclusion which builds to a rather satisfying sense of action but just ends up finishing because it ran out of time and needed to finish rather than let them play out as expected. It's all that holds this one back.
One of the weirdest and absurd films I've seen
Felt weirded out the entire time but on a whole it works exceptionally well and had me laughing out loud throughout. It's not perfect but it would be hard for a film so weird to be so!
Loved this Movie
shmere-128 November 2015 Warning: Spoilers Loved Loved Loved this movie! Great tongue in cheek movie. Viago was a great character trying to keep his flatmates in check. All the actors did a great job. Petyr was my favourite 8000 year old vampire. Bringing references to Twilight was funny. Wasn't too sure about it at first but watching it again was enjoyable. Will be one movie to watch over and over again. Throw some werewolves and zombies into the mix. The werewolves are funny by asking why they didn't wear large track pants and combo locks. All in a day.
This is comedy gold!
I'm usually pretty critical about films and don't usually go over an 8, but I've watched this film at least 10 times this week. With every viewing I find new hilarious little details I missed the previous times cause I was laughing so hard. Most modern day comedies I can't even finish watching. What We Do In The Shadows is an instant classic that deserves to be mentioned in the same sentence as movies like This is Spinal Tap and Monty Python and The Holy Grail. I really loved Eagle VS Shark, and never thought these guys would top that, but they really stepped up on this film. These guys are the new Monty Python. If you love comedies, you absolutely have to watch this bloody movie!
Very funny
"What We Do in the Shadows" is a Comedy - Horror movie in which we watch some vampires trying to find their way to live a modern life facing many difficulties on their way. They have to overcome those difficulties in order to live a simple, modern life.
I liked this movie very much because it was simply hilarious and it had a nice and funny plot. The direction which was made by Jemaine Clement and Taika Waititi was simply amazing and they both did an excellent job. They combined very their characters with black comedy. The interpretations of Taika Waititi who played as Viago, Jonny Brugh who played as Deacon and Jemaine Clement who played as Vladislav were very good. Lastly, I have to admit that I did not expect "What We Do in the Shadows" to be so funny and entertaining movie but it was a nice surprise so, I highly recommend everyone to watch it because I am sure you will have a great time watching it and that you will laugh a lot.
One of my favorite comedies!
Hilarious, filled with memorable characters and one-liners. I'm a longtime fan of Flight of the Conchords. Jemaine and cast are awesomely funny!
Unfunniest comedy of all time!
It's very rare I hit the eject button on a DVD before it ends but I just had to with this totally unfunny effort from NZ. It's a refreshing idea but this is amateur hour and looks like a film made by a bunch of film students. I didn't laugh once, not even a giggle. 95% of it is filmed inside a dark house which just adds to the dreariness of it all. It's slow and I can't see it going into cinema release in the states. I have liked a few oddball comedies from NZ but I will remember this one for all the wrong reasons. Just awful! I am stunned at the great reviews it has received on here and I suspect they were written by people who worked on the project.
Hilarious! Hilarious! Hilarious!
Parodying vampires, zombies, werewolves & witches yet full of heart, warmth & zestful spirit, What We Do in the Shadows is a ravishing, refreshing & rib-tickling horror comedy that exquisitely illustrates the gifts & curses of being a vampire in its own amusing manner, and is one of the finest examples of its kind.
So funny!
This movie has been in on my list for a long time. Finally watched it tonight and it was hysterical. Actors were great. I think I may have to watch it again down the road.
Funny as hell.
This movie is pretty funny, which is the main thing that its got going for it. I greatly enjoyed it. If you are planning to watch it, don't forget to stay around until the very end to see the end-credits scene. The rest of this review is going to be broken up into parts so that you can see where I stand on each element of it. Effects - The effects were pretty bad for the most part, though I did think that the flying looked decent. There is a scene with werewolves, and the costumes are terrible. However, the smart decision to keep them out-of-focus and in the dark for as long as possible was made and it didn't take away from the scene to much when the camera focused long enough to show the audience the embarrassing suits. Cinematography - This movie gets a bit of a pass as its style is that of a mockumentary. There are a few scenes where the cameraman moves a bit faster than he should to get lots of different angles. You could say that there are more than one cameramen (which there are) but they would've been visible in the other shots. It took me out of the movie a bit since the only way to achieve the effect they got is by having the cameraman move around between takes to film a scene in real time from multiple angles. If the cameramen were a bit more visible, the documentary-style presentation would've been a bit more believable. Ignoring that, its actually shot and put together very well (ignoring the bad CGI). Audio - There are some bits where characters are cleaning their shirts and you can hear the sound of something brushing a mike, implying that the vampires have mikes. The audio quality is pretty good throughout the whole movie, but where is seems to be coming form is a bit inconsistent. At no point can you see mikes on the characters, and there's never any mention of them. Its a bit odd. Not the worst thing ever, but it kinda bugged me. Comedy - Comedy is a bit subjective. Everyone finds different things funny. I though that this was a funny movie. I liked the situations, I thought the punchlines were well-delivered. Overall I was laughing throughout the whole thing. The Plot - There is a plot. Its not the greatest plot, sure, but it is coherent. Its a bit loose and simple, but it works well in a movie heavily reliant on gags. The plot is mostly just the life of a few characters over what seems to be the course of about a year. Its funny and entertaining and isn't trying to be something that its not. The Characters - Not all the characters have as much development as they could've had in this short movie, but the performances are good and they all play off of each other making the jokes work. This was not my favorite movie of all time, but I enjoyed it and would recommend it. This is a movie worth watching. Though its short, you're sure to enjoy the time it takes to watch - provided that this is the type of humor you enjoy. If not, I don't know what to tell you.
The most human vampires I've ever seen
This film is a small masterpiece of its kind. Amusing and very entertaining manages to capture you completely in the plot and characters.
One of the greatest modern comedies
This film is hilarious throughout, it contains both witty dialogue and superb visual and physical comedy. Of course what people find funny is subjective but personally the mix of self depreciation, trying to be cool and mockumenary format hit harder than any overly positive Hollywood comedy. It feels like the film has so much heart, everyone seems to be having so much fun and that's something I adore about smaller productions like these. This is my favourite film and I highly recommend it to everyone!
Completely flawless
There's not much else to say about this. The comedy/writing is incredible. The acting is fantastic. This is perfect. See it if you enjoy irony, satire, absurdity, and comedic action. I also highly recommend the series. This goes down as one of my favorite films.
It's kind of alright
Like all mockumentaries, it kind of works, but isn't really funny enough to be a proper comedy. The tone is great and the archness of a fly-on-the-wall documentary is well re-created, but this is no David Brent and The Office work of next level meta-filmmaking. Overall, just mildly amusing, but with some great moments in amongst the average hokum.
Hilarious! Fun and kooky.
Such a unique hidden gem of a movie. Strangely stays with you, and you find yourself laughing out loud about some of the scenes afterwards. Watch it with a friend.
Well done!
Amusing vampire comedy
After hearing so many good reports about this movie - and remembering that New Zealand has made some really funny offbeat comedies (like the early works of Peter Jackson) - I decided to give it a look. And for the most part, I am glad I gave it a chance. It is indeed very amusing at times. I think that the reason the movie is humorous is that it has a very warm viewpoint towards the characters. Yes, some of the acting is a little rough, but these characters come across as HUMAN despite being vampires. They have needs, they have weaknesses, and other attributes that we in the audience can identify with. You'll like them despite their blood sucking. Speaking of blood sucking, the gore and the special effects are quite good for what had to have been a really low budget.
If there is a weakness to this movie, it is in the story department. I realize the movie is a mockumentary following the characters in a day by day format (or make that night by night!), but for the longest time the movie is pretty episodic. After a while, you'll wish for some plot to come in to challenge the characters and add in some real drama. This lack of plot I believe holds the movie back from being great. But there's still enough here to make for a very enjoyable viewing.
Blood-curdling hilarious
What We Do in the Shadows was a film made by some of the best comedic talents New Zealand has to offer and they came was a hilarious horror-comedy. What We Do in the Shadows was an episodically structured film as it followed a group of vampires living in Wellington, and looking at the issues they face. The film offers up some great comic twists on vampire lore and references films from Nosferatu to The Lost Boys to Twilight. It comes out swinging with the feral Pytor to the vampires needing to be invited into a nightclub, and a final battle in a park. The film has a great mix of subverting vampire tropes and darkly humorous.
A Matter of Humor
The first minutes reminded me a lot of American Zombie, a not-so-recent zombie mockumentary, there is also the 2010 Belgian vampire mockumentary called Vampires, so the entire concept didn't seem as new to me as it apparently did to others. In fact the whole formula seemed a little superimposed, it adds up to "here are three guys that live together AND they are vampires". Many jokes are taken from roommate/college-night-out situations and translated to vampires, with only a handful of laughing out loud moments in the entire movie. However, after a clumsy start, it became progressively interesting to see how they handled and presented certain occult myths - sadly we never get far beyond pop culture occultism.
The production value is in no way detrimental to the comedic quality of the movie and the acting is all around quite solid. In the end it is, as often the case with comedy, a matter of taste. I certainly hope you are able to get more laughs out of this than me. Give this movie a go if you are interested in vampires/occultism and if the humor resonates with your taste you'll have a blast.
Painfully unfunny
The setup is promising but the delivery is absolutely dreadful. They get 70% of the way to each joke and then just seem to stop. This film is about as funny as dental torture. I do not know why everyone says this is hilarious - it's shockingly unfunny. I suppose I shouldn't have been all that surprised - that Jermaine Conchords guy is massively overrated and he's in it. Kiwi comedy seems to consist of saying unfunny deadpan lines and expecting people to find it hilarious. Well guess what? It's not. Instead of just expecting people to see you're kiwi and laugh, maybe try writing a good script or a funny joke?
Brilliant, hilarious, original comedy
Brilliant, hilarious, original comedy. A documentary team films the lives of a group of vampires for a few months. The vampires share a house in Wellington, New Zealand. Turns out vampires have their own domestic problems too... Incredibly original, and very funny. Co-written and co-directed by Jemaine Clement of Flight of the Concords fame, it features understated humour, sharp dialogue and clever skits, similar to Flight of the Concords. While the budget was obviously fairly low, the cheapish production values don't detract from the quality of the movie. If anything, they enhance the movie, as the directors can't rely on fancy CGI but instead have to rely on clever plot and dialogue. It also makes the movie feel much more "real". Solid performances all round from a cast whose only known names are Jemaine Clement and Rhys Darby (also of Flight of the Concords fame. Where was Bret McKenzie?). Probably the best vampire movie you'll ever see.
Shadows and Fog
Four twenty-first century New Zealand vampires are interviewed by a documentary crew in this horror mockumentary written, directed by and starring Jemaine Clement and Taika Waititi. Much of the film was reportedly improvised with over 100 hours of footage shot. As such, the film is highly uneven with some sequences dragging; the "swear-wolves" in particular are far less interesting than the vampire protagonists. Most of the film clicks into place nicely though, and while scattered gags misfire, there are far more hits than misses. At the film's funniest, two police officers visit the vampires' den (dilapidated house) and (without checking) accept that a bloodied corpse on a dirty floor is a drunk friend who has passed out, instructing the vampires to at least place a pillow under his head! Clement also has a great deadpan moment as he casually announces that he must have hit a main artery after his attempt to drain a woman's blood turns messy. Humour aside, the film is thoughtfully assembled with archive footage gloriously spliced into the mix, as well as some faux newspaper headlines. There is also much to like in how comically anachronistic the vampires (wearing period costumes for the most part) are, using Skype to stay in contact and repeatedly failing to get into local nightclubs since they need to be "invited in". There are also some fun references to 'The Lost Boys' and vampire lore in general, including vampires' ability to hypnotise and get people to look at them, which for our not-so-skilled nosferatus involves physically knocking on their doors!
Excellent mockumentary comedy
This film uses the mockumentary format in the best possible way. The comedy here has a very laidback New Zealand style that Taika Waititi also used in Thor: Ragnarok. It takes the typical vampire tropes and collides them with a modern suburban world.
Excellent comedic mockumentary
What We Do in the Shadows is a mockumentary comedy movie that premiered in 2014. The movie is directed and written by Jemaine Clement, Taika Waititi. The movie stars Taika Waititi, Jemaine Clement, Jonathan Brugh, and Ben Fransham. The is about a documentary crew that follows four vampires inside of a house. The movie follows the four vampires as they have nightly adventures in Wellington, New Zealand. What We Do in the Shadows is an excellent comedy movie. The movie is similar to other mockumentaries such as The Office which follows the characters around. The vampire characters of Viago, Vladislav, Deacon, and Petyr are incredibly hilarious as they have many misadventures across Wellington. The movie does incredibly well in making the audience care about these characters and the events that occur to them. The movie does not have much a plot much like other mockumentaries and instead has the audience become invested in the characters to tell the story. The characters are easily the best part of this movie. The side characters and main characters are all played well by the actors and actresses and they have great moments. One of the characters, Nick, is inadvertently turned into a vampire and becomes a character the audience can use to follow how the vampires undergo their rituals. This moment is incredibly funny as Nick has to explore vampirism. In addition, the usage of the vampire powers is played to great comedic effect as the movie plays up the ignorance of humans. The primary problem with the movie is that overall it does meander. There is no grand story arc in this movie. The movie feels more like an elevated television show however this is not a detractment if the audience knows what they want. The trailers for this movie were not misleading and never hinted at a large story. The movie is a simple story focusing on the vampiric characters. I would recommend 'What We Do in the Shadows'. This is an excellent movie with great casting and timing on the comedic sequences.
Vastly Overrated and Not that Funny
Maybe it is because I'm not a fan of the horror genre or vampire movies, but I found this film tedious and with sparse bits of mild amusement tossed in. This isn't Spinal Tap with fangs. The actors try their best at deadpan comedy, but the timing and absurdity just isn't there. The film is a series of long, boring jokes where you can see the punch line coming from a mile away, falling flat when it finally and mercifully arrives. Then the film starts setting up for the next joke and it you start checking your wristwatch to see how much is left before the credits start rolling. The project is an interesting idea, just not executed very well. Forgive the pun, but I don't think they really sunk their teeth into the topic. The bit about not being to use a mirror was promising, but it went on too long and never went past the obvious jokes. The most obvious logical questions never get asked: why aren't all those victims noticed? what do they do for money? how can they go centuries without updating their wardrobe or learning anything from the modern world? The overall pacing and direction struck me as aimless and flabby, maybe not a surprise for what is an exercise in improvisation, but just shows how difficult that medium can be to perform well. Finally, I also thought the explicit gore, while infrequent, really disrupted the comedic tone. Someone else noted that this might have been an effort better limited to a short film rather than a feature length project and I'd agree. A one-joke premise not all that well done to start with and stretched far past the breaking point.
So, so funny (but very bloody)
It took a while for me to get my bearings on this film—very deadpan (in keeping with the mock-umentary format) and very gory, which is an odd combo—but once I stopped expecting one long episode of Flight of the Conchords (although it definitely is reminiscent, and has some great cross-over), it killed me. Definitely a movie that gets funnier and funnier the more times you watch it. Just brilliant and witty and sweet and silly. But, you know, with vampires. With New Zealand accents. Another plus, this movie is short—about an hour and a half, I think. With the norm moving towards 3+ hours, it was a delight to not spend the entire evening in the theater. Again, there are some really bloody bits, so I might not suggest it as a first-date movie, depending on the date, but it's one of my favorite films from this year.
The concept is a fun one but leaves too much open. Nonetheless its a fun idea. Sadly the only fun thing i saw in the entire film before i had to stop watching it. The setting is too brutal to be "realistic". So much so that it calls the entire concept into question and makes jokes that would otherwise have worked fall flat. Its a great idea and the effort is visible but the acting is too much "wink wink nudge nudge" and the atmosphere too uncomfortable. It's not bad and all its parts are basically functional but it's too mundane for a horror spoof and too gruesome for a lighthearted comedy. In short: A lot of very good parts, decent acting, great concepts and ideas, and good humour are ruined by a dissonant and unimmersive tone.
Do you like to get drunk? Do you like to leave a mess? Do you like brainless humour? Do you have low expectation from life? If so, then this is the movie for you. It takes a basic concept of having a group of 'vampires' living together like student flatmates. And that's about it. From that you can pretty much guess what sort of interactions and dialogue will occur. Take half of that away because this really doesn't go anywhere. Perhaps the budget was low and so getting funding was easy. It is a shame because this could have been good. I have tried to put my finger on exactly what this film lacks. I think it is in all areas.
A Bite of Authentic and Hilarious Comedy Thats One For The Ages
My fiancée and I had an absolute BLAST watching What We Do In The Shadows. So much so that days after seeing the film, we continued chucking at our favorite scenes and characters, and there were PLENTY to share. This smart and hilarious creation by Taika Waititi is no doubt the best comedy of the year by a mile. I am particularly fond as to how they were able to take the slightly overused and exhausting vampire genre, and introduce quirks and gags to make a fresh and original comedy that perfectly entertains. Taika deserves to be everyone's radar with this comedic success.
Well done and Witty
What we do in the shadows was a witty and entertaining movie that covered a large amount of ground, and was filled with plenty of genuinely funny humor. Being some what of a fan of the directors prior movie "eagle vs shark," i found "What we do in the shadows" to be significantly better, all the while keeping the dry sense of humor and laid back style of storytelling. This movie was well shot, and did not seem overly cheap in production value. The satire found throughout was well executed, and it felt that no stone was left unturned in its analysis of the vampire mythos. Being a mockumentary, everything was done right and explained, and a feeling of realism emanated as the movie progressed. A degree of true horror aspect was held throughout the main backdrop making the humorous aspects all the more enjoyable. Exceeded my expectations, and I highly recommend giving this one a watch for any fans of mockumentary films, vampire/horror movies and comedies.
Hilarious
I find comedy's a bit hit and miss these days. A lot have a couple of laughs here and there and overall pleasant to watch, HOWEVER, this movie had me laughing from start to finish. Taking a bunch or lads who are sharing a flat, throw in all the normal issues and arguments they have, AND make them vampires........brilliant. The lines were funny, the characters were great and the effects were good too. I definitely recommend this if you have a dry sense of humour and find the likes of "The Office" funny.
Improvising vignettes amuse at times, seem awkward at others.
I suppose that if you were not expecting much this film might amuse at times. If you are a horror movies fan, this is meant to be a comedy, maybe a dark comedy, but certainly not a horror movie. What it turns out to be is some Kiwi actors improvising vignettes about what some old -time vampires might experience in modern days. There is really no plot but the film makers are good at following the characters as any documentary should, waiting for the story to unfold itself. Unfortunately, it never really does. What it delivers is some one-liners, lots of fake looking gore and stiff wire work. At times the actors appear uncomfortable in their roles and possible funny moments are lost as the actors appear to not know what to do with a scenario, trip over each others lines, or give us awkward face mugging at the camera.
I see from the reviews that many New Zealanders like the film, and that is fine. They should support their film industry. However, New Zealand is responsible for Peter Jackson, so we know that they are much more capable than this type of amateur production.
Vampire Spinal Tap
The premise of this movie, the mockumetary, has been done many times and you'd think that it would finally get boring. Happily, this is definitely not the case. This movie was joy to watch not only for the characters, but the special effects were top notch. This is a movie you cannot only watch one time because there is a lot of subtle things you are going to miss with each viewing. That is what makes a movie great. I am looking forward to seeing it again and also checking out the series.
Definitely worth your time
This is a movie for those who both like and dislike vampire movies. My wife is in the former category and I am in the latter. We both enjoyed this film equally.
From the opening scene to the closing credits, it is laugh out loud funny. It pokes fun at every part of the vampire mythology without resorting to simply being a parody of other movies.
The film simply follows the life (if I can call it that) of four vampires of various ages sharing a run down flat in Wellington, New Zealand. It hilariously showcases the disadvantages of being a vampire from trying to see how you look when you have no reflection to attempting to get a bouncer to actually invite you in to a nightclub.
Regrading the criticisms of the film quality, it is totally in keeping with the mockumentary style but should not be confused with the quality of the special effects. While there are no shots of super villains smashing up cities or firefights in deep space, the special effects are good enough to make you forget that they are special effects.
Biting comedy
A clever 'mockumentary' that follows the travails of four vampires sharing a house in modern Wellington NZ, "What We Do in the Shadows" tags many of the tropes associated with the vampire myth as the foursome struggle to get along and get enough to drink. The film is largely a 'big in-joke' and aficionados of the genre will recognise each of bloodsuckers from movies/books but even if vampires are not your cup of blood, it is still pretty funny. Some of the jokes and sight-gags work better than others but the best parts are brilliant: especially the interactions with the vampires' immortal enemies, the werewolves. Be forewarned: at times the movie is a bit crude (even the werewolves are swear-wolves at times) and gruesome (four guys who drink blood sharing a house, what do you think the kitchen looks like?). Best line: Vlad, on using the legendary sexuality of the vampire to attract prey "I am the bait and the trap."
Hilarious and Skillful
Shot in the style of a documentary 'WWDITS' is a brisk and hilarious dive into the Vampire community of Australia. Inventively created on a low budget the characters are distinct and the concept is extremely original this film is overlooked and is a fantastic watch
Not hilarious but very likable.
Before setting out to see a preview of this film I glanced at the host of enthusiastic reviews on this site and then noticed that most of them were 'reviewed' by folks who had reviewed nothing else. This made me suspicious and I felt that the film would be a sad and silly mess. Not so! The movie is nowhere near as funny as suggested or intended but the look of it is stunning. set design and costume stars should win awards, almost ever scene looks fantastic with decrepit, stained interiors, literally dripping with blood and crazy costumes that help maintain the right feel for what is essentially a vampire flat share. The mockumentary format works well initially and there are quite brilliant sequences as each creature gives his back story and this is illustrated with a fantastic array of old prints, paintings and vampiric illustrations. However as the film progresses, the format shows its limitations and things become just a little static. The introduction of werewolf creatures is helpful and provide the best exterior sequences and I just wish I liked the whole thing more. A lot of love and care and enthusiasm has clearly gone into this but it didn't quite seem to have enough edge. For all the projectile blood vomiting and killing this remained a nice film about vampiric creatures managing to live as best they can. Maybe thats enough.
A series of short features
At times it is amusing, but, sadly, there is no story here. Just some short features stitched together to please the board that was doing the paying. And it looks more like home video or student movie than Reality TV.
Glorious
What a movie! It's so fresh, funny and strange! That's a perfect recipe for a cult movie. When you love vampire, you want to spend some time in the darkness with them. You want to know how they live, how it is. The movie is directed as if you were with them in the shadow. It's definitely the kind of movie you want to watch again and again.
A Hilarious, Delightful 90 Minutes
What We Do in the Shadows is a terrific movie with a very well written plot and a tremendous comedic cast. It is a ridiculously fun, original comedy film as we follow a group of vampires in a documentary style, getting to see what a regular week is like for them. It does this mockumentary take in a way that is fresh and not in any way repetitive or similar to other ones, we feel like these vampires are really people, while also being in hysterics. My only genuine complaint about this movie is that it was too short. Running at just under ninety minutes, I was a little underwhelmed at how abruptly it finished, I felt it could have gone further, more could have happened. The cast is absolutely phenomenal, with everyone having an effortless comedic presence, great chemistry and owning their roles individually. Taika Waititi, Jemaine Clement and Jonathan Brugh shine in their respective roles, and the back and forth between them is so good that it is hard to tell what bits are improvised and what are scripted. Pure hilarity from beginning to end. A complete riot, What We do in the Shadows is great fun, and I would recommend it to anyone looking for a good comedy. Follows a group of vampires living in the same household, coping with their mundane day to day lives.
Interview with Wellington Vampires
There are a lot of targets in this amusing meta-mockumentary about of group of vampires trying to make it in modern Wellington: vampire myths and movies, documentaries and other mockumentaries. Writers/directors Jemaine Clement and Taika Waititi wisely keep the focus tight and mine the mundane (a vampire chore wheel, the tensions of sharing a flat with others) for humor as much as they explore the more absurd elements of the premise, like how to get into a nightclub when you have to be invited in, tricky relationship management with familiars, and run-ins with a rival gang of werewolves. If the best mockumentaries explore the social, cultural and political milieu of its subjects, this one has to make those things up out of pop culture depictions, so it isn't always as sharp and wickedly funny as the great examples of the genre. It is, however, very well-constructed, thoughtful and mostly funny, even with a few dry stretches. And it's nice to see New Zealand as something other than Middle Earth for a change.
A different kind of vampire movie
This is a great mockumentary, especially if you like Taika Waititi's brand of humor. I'm glad this movie put him on the road that led him to direct the fantastic Thor: Ragnarok. If Spinal Tap meets Flight of the Conchords sounds good to you, go watch this right now!
Hilarious.
I've never seen Flight of the Conchords but I was familiar with their brand of deadpan irony. What We Do In The Shadows is class-A irony as we follow a band of vampires integrate themselves into contemporary New Zealand. It adapts the mockumentary style of This Is Spinal Tap, one that now feels like it belongs on TV with The Office and Modern Family, but it breaks the bounds of the small screen with supernatural moments and entertaining wire tricks. The backbone is the humour, the way it approaches these dark things in such a blase way with its endearing network of characters. Sometimes it does get a little too silly or a payoff is predictable, but it's coming so thick and fast that it's briskly redeemed. It's the eye for storytelling and eventual thoughtful heart, where it discusses life, love and death, that boost it above being a typical midnight comedy. One of the funniest and most rewarding films of the year that shows how vampires aren't finished yet.
Vampire mocumentary that is less funny than intended. Spinal Tap this is not!
From the team behind the hugely successful Flight of the Conchords and the fabulous indie hit, Eagle Vs Shark, What We Do in the Shadows is a comedy horror mockumentary with 'hilarious' stamped all the way through it. Except it isn't. Hilarious, that is. Jemaine Clement and Taika Waititi write, direct, produce and perform in this spoof documentary about a group of vampire flatmates trying to deal with life in modern times and each other's annoying traits. Being immortal and hundreds of years old does not iron out the problems of who takes care of which chores in any given week. Nor, it appears, does being several centuries old help one iota when it comes to deciding what to wear to the nightclub. There is plenty to like on display: the costumes are fabulously camp, there are references aplenty to the great vampires of film and literature, the sets are fun and there are one or two lovely, practical effects that splatter blood, but nothing too horrific or likely to raise the pulse. There are even a couple of surprising, and very welcome digital effects thrown in. What We Do in the Shadows feels cheap and it's a surprise when the budget allows for something extra. But it isn't enough. The performances are adequate but it all feels a little too much like college kids playing at drama. Forget pastiche, this is weak parody and there is little skill in it here. Clement, as Vladislav, is amusingly gauche in his 'god's gift to women' act, but Waititi, as Viago, appears to have bought his performance, or at least his grin, from Danny John-Jules' Red Dwarf jumble sale. In terms of performances, the greatest joy comes from the deadpan, detachment of Stu (Stuart Rutherford) and Ben Fransham's Petyr, the bastard son of Nosferatu, whose dialogue would probably fit on the back of his fangs. Alas, there is a distinct lack of strong female roles on display here, with the women reduced to comedy fodder bit parts. When they appear, they are amusing, but perhaps What We Do in the Shadows could have benefited from a matriarchal touch. For years Christopher Guest has delighted audiences with mockumentaries like Best in Show, A Mighty Wind and the peerless This is Spinal Tap, and my guess is this this is what Clement and Waititi were aiming for. The trouble is, where Guest played it straight, they work too damn hard at eking out laughs at every turn. Heck, this is nowhere near as funny as Anvil: The Story of Anvil, and that wasn't even a spoof! Whilst not a flop by any means, What We Do in the Shadows was clearly far more amusing to make than it was to watch and the final, post-credit, line is sadly prophetic, and not for the reason they intend.
I certainly don't intend to bash or talk too negatively about "What we do in the Shadows", but to all those die-hard fans who claim that it's a super-original, refreshing and inventive horror comedy I would just like to state clear that the exact same idea and concept had already been done before, namely in the sadly unknown but definitely worthwhile Belgian sleeper hit "Vampires" (Vincent Lanoo – 2010). In that film, which was basically a spoof/homage towards the legendary Belgian cult classic "Man Bites Dog", a TV crew gets the assignment of following around a family of vampires and shoot a documentary about their lives, habits and routines. "What we do in the Shadows" is identical, in fact, except that the action takes place in New Zealand instead of Belgium and that the vampires are not related to each other but house mates that originate from different historic eras. Viago is nearly 320 years old, Deacon almost 200 and Vladislav over 800. They share a little student flat in the center of Wellington and encounter daily issues, like whose turn is it for doing the dishes or who spilled human blood all over the floor. Oh, there's also an 8000-year-old Nosferatu look-alike named Petyr living in the attic! Most of the comic situations are related to the gigantic generational differences between them, especially when they reluctantly "welcome" the brand new vampire Nick in their midst. Nick doesn't really bother to keep his vampirism secret, but he does introduce the rest of them to interesting new technologies (like sunset videos on You Tube) and provides them access to hipster nightclubs. The humor in "What we do in the Shadows" is subdued and dry. Very, very dry In fact, the film works best as a pitch-black satire of the recent trend of "polished" vampire movie franchises and TV-series like the "Twilight Saga" or "True Blood". The vampires here are not stylish or attractive – quite the contrary - and there's absolutely nothing sensual about being bitten in the neck; especially when the victim's artery paints the entire room blood red. Definitely not all gags or puns are equally successful, but some ideas are extremely inventive and even downright brilliant, notably the nightly confrontation with the werewolf pack and all sequences involving Petyr. Recommended, but – please – make an effort to also check out the aforementioned Belgian pathfinder flick "Vampires".
Improv was just not that great. needed a stronger script
they say that "More than 120 hours of footage was shot, most of which were improvisation from the leads." And improv sometimes works, but it usually works best when actors are working from a strong script and when the story has at least some structure. this movie had a great idea behind it and had a lot of potential. it was actually a pretty genius idea, and to be fair there were some really hilarious scenes too. But I just felt like the movie needed stronger direction. a lot of the jokes fall flat because they feel like they either run for too long or they are too awkward and they just didn't know when to cut. I would have loved to see a different edit from those 120 hours of footage actually. (maybe there were funnier moments that got cut because the jokes left in the movie ran for too long) Or I wish they had focused a little more on making the jokes stronger rather than what we got. So, to me this was a great idea, but not as great of an execution of the idea. If you like vampires this is a good movie full of inside jokes on the genre. they definitely did the research on vampire lore
one of this Mockumentary's cast members pretend-hypnotizes the audience in WHAT WE DO IN THE SHADOWS' post-credits last line. If only we could. Forget. This flick's trailer contains ALL of SHADOWS' few humorous moments, so this feature itself becomes an exercise in tedium that makes the viewers feel 8,000 years old, like vampire Peter. Few movie-goers will manage to stay awake throughout this snooze-test, unless they have brought along a "familiar" to keep them occupied in the movie theater's shadows. SHADOWS comes from New Zealand. If you thought that THE LORD OF THE RINGS and THE HOBBIT were a hoot, then you might bust a gut watching SHADOWS. But if you expect this entire show to build upon its trailer in a clever way, you most likely will be disappointed. Ask yourself: When a White male vampire says his outfit for the annual Witches, Zombies, and Vampires Masquerade Ball was "Whoopi Goldberg in her SISTER ACTs habit," is it any more "hilarious" than a Sooner fraternity Kegger chant?
One of the best comedies of the decade
Taika Waititi is a comedic genius. Credit also goes to Jermaine Clement as he co-stars, co-writes, and co-directs this film with his New Zealand buddy. This is quite simply one of the funniest movies in some time. They find the perfect balance between comedy and horror against a hilarious vampire backdrop. The problem with most modern comedies is that they aren't consistently funny throughout their runtime. Shadows bucks this trend by keeping the sharp jokes firing until the credits roll. You can really see Waititi honing his craft on this brilliant mockumentary.
Fangtastic
Me and a mate were talking abut movies in the pub a few weeks ago and he asked me if I had seen this one, to which I, a total horror film addict, had to to say no, I hadn't. Lo and behold, not long after, it was screened on TV. My mate said that he thought it was really funny and I have to totally agree. Four vampires, raging from 8000 to a mere 183 years old, house share in Wellington, New Zealand and this comical mockumentary follows their hilarious night time exploits. We also get werewolves and zombies thrown into the melting pot, as well as a human character called Stu. I was very impressed by everything, the wit is spot on, the acting is sufficiently good, some pretty decent effects and gore, etc. So many horror comedies fail in my opinion but this one is a winner.
Tongue-thru-cheek horror comedy ala "This Is Spinal Tap" mockumentary
WHAT WE DO IN THE SHADOWS (2014) ** 1/2 Jemaine Clement, Taika Waititi, Jonathan Brugh, Cori Gonzalez-Macuer, Stuart Rutherford, Ben Fransham, Jackie van Beek, Rhys Darby. Tongue-thru-cheek horror comedy ala "This Is Spinal Tap" mockumentary that is hit-and-miss but nonetheless winningly funny centering on four vampire roomies attempting to keep the peace while looking for fresh blood. Bloody, frequently droll and inventive yet silly altogether. Clement and Waititi co-directed and co-scripted this monster marriage with mirth that gets an A for effort if anything in seeing Fransham's creepy Nosferatu as a flatmate who can't be tidy.
This film was hilarious and unique.
What We Do in the Shadows is a low-budget, horror comedy about a small group of vampires that live in an apartment together in modern day New Zealand. The plot focuses on how these vampires adapt to a new vampire joining their group. The four initial vampires consist of Deacon, Petyr, Viago and Vladislav. Each of these vampires come from drastically different backgrounds and range from a couple hundred to a several thousand years old. This variety in backgrounds allows the characters to be very unique and it makes their interactions funny and interesting. This movie has one goal and one goal, only: the make you laugh. The plot is not very deep and can sometimes lack flow, but the jokes are consistently funny so you really don't care. The film is shot like a documentary. Characters will occasionally talk to the camera similar to Modern family or the Office. The quick cuts and explanatory dialogue allows fantastic comedic timing. The special effects are low budget but are most of the time done very well. Some of the camera tricks are very impressive and make the scenes feel quite real. The flying effects are quite poor, though. It is obvious that the actors are just suspended by wires. This might seem like a negative, but the way it is portrayed on screen makes it quite hilarious. There are a couple of brief action scenes which are done well enough. The chases can get quite shaky, though. This is a rated R film, but the graphic material was handled very well. There are a few f-words, but they are rare enough and used to appropriate places most of the time. The blood is so over-the-top and silly that it didn't bother me at all. If there is anything that would be extremely graphic, it is blurred out. I wasn't expecting much when entering the theater, but I left thoroughly entertained. If you want to laugh and if don't care that the plot is somewhat irrelevant then you will have a blast.
Something that will blow your fans off
At first, when I found this piece, I was hesitant to see it. But once I did, I was mad that I hand't done before so. This movie is just pure EPIC. It puts a rambling twist on the modern world with those usual fantasies, old legends, reality show culture and pure ignorance. Every line of the script with it's words and improvisation, is carefully sifted through the masterminds behind it and made to be pure gold. A simple line of letters can not even begin to describe this masterpiece as the picture has a punch after a punch as the seconds fly by. Words of suggestion: If you are looking for some comedy to rest from your long day, this is not for you. If you are looking for something to spike all the funny-cells in your brain, look no further. A true and utter diamond of the industry that faces no boundaries from time nor century. I keenly hope this film will be a cult classic even 100 years from now.
You have to have a warped sense of humour to enjoy it
I found this film quite funny at the beginning but it gets a bit ridiculous after a while. The storyline is quite original and the different characters brought different flavours to this somewhat weird and wonderful film. Its based around three vampires who live together as roommates. They have to deal with day to day life whilst getting various victims to come to there house so they can feed. One of there victims introduces them to modern life and they end up going to night clubs and exploring the Internet. The whole concept is very well put together and at such a cheap budget, they really did do a good job. It does get a big silly after a while but you have to take it with a pinch of salt because your really not supposed to take it seriously. The fact that they are blood sucking vampires who take to a very normal Nick, who doesn't really say that much through the film, made me laugh along with the servant who is dying to become a vampire. Anyway, it's a light hearted comedy about a friendship and brotherhood which has a unique, vampire twist. Watchable! Round-Up: Were do I start with this film? I recognised Jemaine Clement from MIB3, Dinner For Schmucks and Muppets Most Wanted but I haven't seen the other actors before. The film was also written and directed me Jemaine who has a extremely weird sense of humour, which I saw in Tongan Ninja. The main vampire Taika Waititi, had a brief role in the Green Lantern but this has to be his real shot at fame. He also wrote and directed this movie so you have to give him credit for that. Anyway, I doubt that there will ever be a film like this, made again so it's worth a watch for its originality and warped humour. 
I recommend this movie to people who are into their comedies about 3 roommates, who happen to be vampires, who are shown modern day life after turning a young 20 year old into a vampire.
okay
A fictional documentary exposes the day-to-day lives of four vampires sharing a home in Wellington, New Zealand. The movie begins awkwardly in an amateurish way. This was probably intentional but, at least for the first half-hour, it comes off as bad frat-boy material. Once getting used to it, though, it at least has consistency and the humour begins to take effect especially as the vampires get mixed up with witches, werewolves, humans, and other entities.
My favorite movie, hands down.
This movie will make you laugh til you cry. It's a cult favorite among my friend group (age 29) and we watch it a few times a year. The subtleties make this movie perfection. Put your phone down and really watch it and you won't be disappointed.
A documentary style horror comedy based on the short film of the same name by the same directors. I would say it is an interview with the vampires in the Kiwi style. The film follows a group of vampires living in an old mansion and their everyday routine, including how they manage to get blood and confrontation with other mutants are documented. Definitely a wonderful comedy, but feels like a mix of 'Dark Shadows' and 'Addams Family'. The title implies the nightlife of these creatures, especially adapting the modern way of lifestyle. So their exploration begins here for their video document. Being different is how much struggle is what the film focused. Threats from various quarters and getting over from every disastrous event is revealed. Quite an interesting vampire film with the awesome characters and of course the entire film was shot in the dark time. It is not a cliché, but just a spoof of the typical vampire theme. Cleverly written screenplay and direction with the well supported performances. Looks like many people had loved it, I'm slightly on the different side that I enjoyed watching it but did not like much. Because I have seen better film in the similar concept. So I still recommend it because it is worth a watch.
For What You Expect, It Is Totally Unfunn
I love the team behind this film for having made me laugh with their quirky ideas in TV shows and other films. Flight of the Conchords' two-season TV show was immensely enjoyable. But, in here, all I could see was first person conversations that are everything but funny. Narrating their life and death stories are four wannabe vampires who take pride in their ages and useless powers. While one would expect the film to advance to a laugh ride, it goes nowhere. They occupy a dull mansion and invite virgin friends of friends to victimize them; how convenient! Now I am all yes for not having a proper storyline, but there is no humor in even the farthest corners of the dialogs. I may have chuckled once or twice, but they were due to slapstick, which also starts to decline after the first twenty minutes. The makers fail to understand that a promising premise cannot single-handedly drive a good show; it's got to have traction. There is nothing much else to talk about this film that is basically a bad and cringe-worthy execution. BOTTOM LINE: If it is streaks of laughter that you are expecting to do while watching this indie satire show, then I'll suggest you better wait till the time they start selling the DVDs for free, if that ever happens. Avoid!
campy vampires.
Written, directed, AND starring the team of Jemaine Clement and Taika Waititi. That's sometimes a warning sign, but not in this case! The life of modern day vampires. A mockumentary, where the vamps are all flatmates, dealing with the small, everyday issues that come up, like who isn't doing their chores. In new zealand. It's pretty funny! A lot of situational humor; they go to a disco. They pick a fight with a rival gang of guys who claim to be werewolves. But are opposed to swearing. Unlike the vamps.... they swear throughout the film. The human teaches the 800 year old vamps how to use the internet. Fun, but pretty dry. Lots of vomiting. Running gag where the human assistant begs to become a vamp, but when they don't bite her, she claims male chauvanism. When the neighbors complain, it's constable minogue that shows up. Funny stuff. Weird, but worth the watch.
Not really that funny
Your enjoyment of WHAT WE DO IN THE SHADOWS, a Kiwi vampire comedy, really depends on how funny you find the characters. Me, I didn't laugh once, and found the funniest this got was the odd sense of mild amusement at best. Essentially this mockumentary takes the successful format of THE OFFICE - a constant yet unseen cameraman shooting a documentary, with awkward asides and glances at the lens - and mixes it with a vampire spoof in which centuries-old vampires strive to cope with the issues of everyday life. Horror fans will be delighted to see that the main vampires are all based on cinematic legend - Bela Lugosi and Gary Oldman's Draculas are here, and the best of the bunch is a version of Nosferatu - but the actors give performances which feel forced, and I found the whole thing more than a little cumbersome.
Vladislav, Viago, Deacon, and Petyr (Jemaine Clement, Taika Waititi, Jonathan Brugh, and Ben Fransham) are flatmates. Oh, and they're also vampires. Filmed by a documentary crew, our nocturnal friends go through their nightly routines. Their personalities are quite different, which makes them more interesting. Vladislav is the Dracula-type (Think: Vlad The Impaler), looking and sounding very Transylvanian. Viago is more of a gentle sort, not wanting to cause problems. He was a "dandy" when he was alive. Deacon is the more "cool", "hip" bloodsucker. If Keith Moon had become a vampire, this is what he would be! He knits his own sweaters as well. Petyr is the classic Nosferatu of the group, sealed in his concrete coffin in the cellar. As we watch these undead, they take us along on a dark journey into... hilarity! WHAT WE DO IN THE SHADOWS is one of the best mockumentaries since THIS IS SPINAL TAP. As interesting as it is uproarious, it's certainly better than any "real" reality TV show. Some highlights include: Group discussions about the household chores, encounters with the local werewolf pack, the "human" incident at The Unholy Masquerade, and many more! For lovers of humor, who happen to like vampires too. The perfect Halloween confection
A somewhat different vampire movie
And actually a funny one. I have not seen "Vampires Suck", but judging from the reviews it must have been pretty underwhelming. This one certainly is not. It was written and directed by Jemaine Clement and Taika Waititi. Both play main characters as well. Clement scored 7 Emmy nominations for "Flight of the Conchords", while Waititi is an Academy Award nominee from the short film categories. So, even if I was not familiar with either (maybe just me as the theater was packed), both of them have already a respectable body of work and are probably sort of famous in their home New Zealand. This is also where the movie takes place by the way. While I liked Petyr and his traditional Nosferatu looks, my favorite character here is Vladislav (played by Clement, who looks a bit like Rory Cochrane from "CSI: Miami"), but actually everybody had their moments. The first half of the movie ( i.e. the introduction to the world of the 4 vampires) is the highlight. Afterward, it goes slightly south, but still remains good for the most part. One funny part was when they were talking about the sofa and blood on it when they say it is red anyway. Well, it has become red by now. The talking about housekeeping was nice too. Or the guy who is immediately liked by the vampires and werewolves as well, even serves as a bridge between them later on, almost like a male Bella Swan. Or when one werewolf is trolled by a vampire and runs for the ball the vampire throws. There's a lot to laugh in here. You can enjoy this movie too if you liked Twilight, just like I did. It's packed with many interesting vampire references that go way beyond the garlic, sunlight and blood-thirsting. For example did you know vampires have to be asked inside before they can enter a stranger's house? The dramatic parts did not really entertain me that much, such as when they were chasing their newest victim. Actually everything about him, I found fairly forgettable. The girl who wanted to be turned into a vampire was okay (another Twilight reference) and the only scene I really did not like was when they showed the old man who pretty much wasted his life being a servant and never got turned by his masters. It was a bit sad and I could have done without it. The final party scene was solid, but being considered the film's big highlight near the end, I was slightly disappointed. I wish the whole film could have been as funny and entertaining as the first 30 minutes. Nonetheless, this film is a refreshing take on the vampire genre and I recommend giving it a chance.
masterpiece of kiwi humor
no-one does dry, self-deprecating ironic humour like the kiwis. Its a unique blend of taking oneself too seriously, trying to be cool in very awkward, self-conscious way (because its not cool to try to be cool)resulting in apparently accidental absurdity known as "being a dick". A vampire mockumentary is a brilliant vehicle for this kind of humour, as vampires are supposed to have an undead, hypnotic kind of glamour which can easily be camped up without seeming to do so deliberately. The scenes where the vamps are trying to decide what to wear for a night on the town without being able to see their own reflection is a perfect example of this. This comic ethos also explains why mortal Stu is so popular with the vamps...he's very cool because he's not trying to be cool at all to the point of having no personality. Ironically he's a total nerd.
Flight of the Conchords' Jemaine Clement (as Vladislav the Poker)and Rhys Darby (as the leader of the werewolves) steal every scene they're in. Rhys' attempts to prepare the werewolves for their monthly transformation without losing their trousers whilst facing off with the jeering vampires results in side splitting chaos. The zombies and the cops are also priceless.
Watch this on DVD because you'll want to replay these scenes. And don't miss the feature Interviews.
Meet Viago (Taika Waititi), Vladislav (Jemaine Clement), Deacon (Jonny Brugh), and the Nosferatu-like Petyr (Ben Fransham). They're four hip, happening New Zealanders who just happen to be centuries-old vampires (and flatmates). A documentary crew films their activities, and their problems of living in modern-day NZ are sometimes universal, ex. delegating chores. Others are just plain amusing: they can't go into nightclubs unless they're invited in, of course. Some problems arise when the dorky Nick (Cori Gonzalez-Macuer) is bitten by Petyr, and can't adjust to the vampire lifestyle as well as the others have. Done in the style of a "mockumentary", complete with personal testimonials given by the principals, this vampire comedy is like many movies in the comedy genre. It doesn't always work very well, but the gags & jokes that DO land are quite funny. In any event, the movie is put over nicely by its very engaging cast. Deacon and Nick were this viewers' favourite characters. We also see other individuals who are part of the vampires' little world, such as their "familiar", family woman Jackie (Jackie van Beek), who must clean up after kills and procure victims. Another very amusing character is the soft-spoken Stu (Stu Rutherford), Nicks' human friend. His extremely under-stated reactions to the madness around him are a hoot. Among the highlights are the altercations that the vampires have with other beasts, especially a pack of werewolves led by Anton (Rhys Darby). For once, we see a movie where men who are werewolves actually take off their clothes before they transform so the clothes don't get torn to shreds! Waititi and Clement also wrote and directed the film, and they get the look and feel of a "mockumentary" just right. They also know just how to send their viewers away with a smile.
I've watched and reviewed a little over two dozen vampire flicks here on IMDb, and as a testament to how well received this one is by vampire fans, the only other movies that rate higher are "Nosferatu" and "Let the Right One In". Speaking of which, the character Petyr (Ben Fransham) in this one is a pretty straight knockoff of Nosferatu from the 1922 silent film. To call it a parody might be somewhat of a misnomer, the picture skewers everything from vampires to zombies, werewolves and anything remotely resembling the undead, and does it in hilarious fashion. The thing is, the picture doesn't feel like it's trying to be a comedy, but the zany situations and clever writing make you laugh even if you don't want to. There's also a fair amount of sleight of hand going on, as with Vladislav's (Jemaine Clement) horrific depiction of his archnemesis, The Beast. And then, when we finally meet The Beast (Elena Stejko), you have to kick yourself for falling for the set up. It's all cleverly done and quite entertaining, so even if you're not a vampire fan, this one might get you to change your mind.
What We Do in the Shadows
I didn't hear about this film until I saw that there was an American television series spawned from it, I was only going to start watching it after the original film from New Zealand. Basically, a documentary crew, protected by wearing crucifixes, follow the daily (after)life of four vampire flatmates living in Wellington. Viago (Taika Waititi, also writing and directing, directed Thor: Ragnarok) is a 379-year-old dandy from the 18th century; Vladislav (Jemaine Clement, also writing and directing, starred in Men Black 3) is a 862-year-old known as "Vladislav the Poker"; Deacon (Jonny Brugh) is a 183-year-old former Nazi, and Petyr (Ben Fransham) is an 8,000-year-old, who resembles Count Orlok. The group of vampires live their everyday lives in the flat, still influenced by the cultures from their own times, but occasionally go out at night to town and hang out. Jackie (Jackie van Beek) is a human who cleans up the blood spilt from draining in the flat, she also lures victims for the vampires, her master Deacon has promised vampirehood to Jackie for doing so. One night, Jackie brings a couple Nick (Cori Gonzalez-Macuer) and Josephine (Chelsie Preston Crayford) as victims, but Nick is not fully drained and becomes a vampire himself. Nick brings in new cultural colour to the group. He also brings his friend Stu (Stu Rutherford), an IT guy who introduces the modern information technology to the group. Stu becomes a good friend to them, and because he is Nick's best friend, the group form a pact not to eat him. Besides inviting Stu into the group, Nick is quite irresponsible of his newly gained vampirehood, including showing complete strangers his abilities. One day, a vampire hunter (Brad Harding) comes to the flat and enters the basement, Petyr easily kills him, but he dies of sunlight. The group are also visited by two police officers, but they are hypnotised so as not to see anything out of the ordinary, meaning they cannot see the blood spill and dead bodies. The group blames Nick for this and banishes him from the flat. But then the Unholy Masquerade comes, this happens once a year, where New Zealand's undead community comes and mingles together. Viago and Deacon go there and find that Jackie has been turned by Nick, Stu is also there. Soon the masquerade guests find out that Stu is human, and they get eager to eat him. On the way, the group are confronted by their nemesis, a group of werewolves, this turns into a fight. As a result, Stu is turned into a werewolf himself, but in the end, the vampires and werewolves form a friendship. Also starring Rhys Darby as Anton the werewolf, Elena Stejko as Pauline (The Beast), Jason Hoyte as Julian, Karen O'Leary as Policewoman, and Mike Minogue as Policeman. This is a really clever mockumentary, it uses all the conventions, stereotypical and mythological, we have to expect in vampire movies to its advantage, making for some fantastic and often gory jokes, and the characters are all really likeable, a smart and enjoyable horror comedy. Very good!
Nice one
A bit gentle in the first half, when the vampires might as well be a gang of goths. The funniest bits were the fight over the dishes and the werewolf hassle. After that the vampire powers kick off and it's consistently good with lovable characters. The fight scenes reminded me of the karate in Team America, and the scenes with the police made me crack up. Pity the slave doesn't have a bigger part - maybe an extended interview broken up through the narrative. Reminded me of a Catherine Tate character (airport arrivals in a Burke). Plus I'd love a scene where social welfare call around to interrogate them about their income - incompetence with money is always good for laughs (though terribly sad, of course). Love the Balkan brass - homage to Bulgarian Chicks? (google it on dailymotion) - and the music overall was well judged.
Taika Waititi and Jemaine Clement seem to understand misfits. Waititi explored them in his first two films, Eagle vs Shark and Boy, and Clement's partnership with Bret McKenzie as Flight of the Conchords was an object lesson in not fitting in. Their early works were loved both here and abroad. Between them, Waititi and Clement have been nominated at the Grammys, the Emmys and the Oscars, hardly a pedigree to be sniffed at. I guess the domestic appeal of this is born of New Zealand being a strange little country down the bottom of the world, whose national bird doesn't fly, who dared stand up to the Americans and say "No Nukes", and which has been the backdrop for some of the hugest blockbusters of recent years. We're proud of our strangeness. The international appeal is perhaps due in part to the same thing, our unique individuality. I guess, coming from a pair of inveterate misfits, What We Do in the Shadows, an exploration of vampires who live among humans, but are intrinsically not living humans themselves, is a natural growth of themes already explored. As this film explores vampire tropes with fresh eyes, it gives, as well, a poignant look at the value of exploring past beliefs, hurts, losses and prejudices anew and seeing what can grow. As each of us age, it becomes easier to get stuck in our ways, how much more so for vampires whose age is counted not in decades but centuries. For Viago, Vladislav, Deacon, and Petyr there are many challenges. Viago faces the classic immortal's dilemma; his beloved growing old without him. Vladislav has a beast from the past which could rear its head again. Deacon faces the challenge of meeting a new generation and realising his own youth is slipping away. Petyr is growing ever more ancient, and is working to create a legacy. From these challenges come a fresh look at relationships between old enemies, at the cost of indiscretion, at unfulfilled promises and at the need to sometimes sacrifice your own desires out of genuine affection for another. This is a quirky film, slightly disjointed in places. But it delights in its lo-fi quirk right from the very 1970's looking "New Zealand Documentary Board" credit at the beginning. There's plenty of laughs to be had. It won't be everyone's cup of tea, it might be hard for some to follow, but there's entertainment to be found here for all. And now to the reviewer's bias. My grandmother, with whom I attended the Wellington première. Ethel Robinson assured me leading up to the movie that hers would be a very small part. It was, but it was a very necessary component part. And she filled it admirably, as did each of the performers in this piece. From the puzzled police, the frustrated familiar, the affable alpha-wolf, all the way to the venerable vampires themselves, no-one seemed out of place in this gentle comedy. Though it is about the undead, you can feel the warm heart beating below the surface of What we do in the Shadows, a film which will leave you thinking about vampires, and maybe about the world too, in a new way.
mildly amusing
I watched this for about half an hour. A mockumentary about vampire roommates is a cute idea, mixing the day-to-day challenges of shared living with vampire challenges like finding victims, and it was all kind of amusing. But I wouldn't go so far as to call it funny, and the fact that I wasn't actually laughing or feeling interested hinted to me that this wasn't the movie for me. It's very low-key humor. It's so low-key that even the moments that might feel horrific instead just seem bland. In theory, this is a dark comedy, but it never felt that dark or that funny. To be fair, I don't like some mockumentaries that other people love. While I loved Spinal Tap, I never understood the appeal of Waiting for Guffman. So if you just love all the mockumentaries, you might like this better than I did.
Destined for cult status.
What We Do In The Shadows, a horror 'mockumentary' that follows a group of vampire flatmates in New Zealand as they go about their night-to-night activities, both ghoulish and mundane, does for vampires what Spinal Tap did for Heavy Metal bands: it puts its eccentric characters at the centre of some extremely outré situations, yet still shows them as real people that the viewer can identify with and care about. As with Rob Reiner's celebrated 'rockumentary', the wonderfully realised collection of likable characters, the delightfully droll sense of humour and plenty of highly quotable dialogue ensure that the film is destined for cult status.
The cast are uniformly excellent, their deadpan delivery of some very silly dialogue making for some seriously funny moments (although my favourite character, Petyr, an 8000-year-old Nosferatu-style vampire, managed to make me laugh without uttering a word, his confused expressions enough to tickle my funny-bone). Writer/directors Jemaine Clement and Taika Waititi keep the pace brisk enough and the action varied enough to make certain that their central joke never wears thin, the silliness including a female familiar who is fed up with cleaning up blood and providing virgins, a newbie vampire who brags about his newfound status, a human who is welcomed into the group, a pack of irascible werewolves, and an annual masquerade party where the vamps get to let off some steam.
An Exceptional Surprise
I'm not a huge fan of mockumentaries. They've been so overdone. Ditto vampire films. I've also not really into "Flight of the Conchords" so when this went on, I was only half paying it any attention. I'm telling you all this so you'll understand when I say I loved this. I wasn't expecting to, but I found myself recommending it to everyone who would listen. Now it's your turn. If you enjoy Eddie Izzard monologues, then imagine one come to life. In this film you'll get to see how vampires do the vacuuming, how vampires eat chips and why vampires put newspaper down when entertaining a guest. All the cast look like they are having great fun, and I loved Rhys Darby as a very responsible werewolf, making sure all the members of his pack are wearing stretchy pants on the night of the full moon. Deducting one point for lack of originality, but other than that I can't fault this. Terrific fun.
Good characters but needed more of a story
Jemaine Clement has a very unique sense of humour. If you've seen 'Flight of the Conchords' you'll know that his is a brand of comedy that is not for everyone, but if it is for you you'll absolutely love it. It's an incredibly dry type of humour which is why I wasn't surprised to hear he was doing a vampire movie. It sounded right up his alley. And he nailed the humour, he really did. The only problem was he never bothered to accompany it with a story and so the film just feels like 80 minutes of improvised vampire jokes.
I read that he and co-writer/director Taika Waititi wrote a script but never actually showed it to the cast and just let them improvise almost the entire thing and adjusted the script accordingly. For me they needed to take a leaf out of Larry David's comedy series 'Curb Your Enthusiasm' where everything is improvised but still with very strict guidelines of information that needs to be included to further the story. It works for him and I see no reason why it couldn't have worked here. Improvising everything including the story is just madness and it is sadly what holds this film back from being a truly great New Zealand comedy.
Silly But Understuffed, This Needed a Little More Incubation
A Flight of the Conchords mockumentary inspecting the logistics of the vampire social scene in modern-day New Zealand. I was hoping for better. It seems like it's constantly right on the verge of doing something really hilarious, but can't quite flip the switch. The landscape is ripe for this kind of a satire, too, with so much empty romanticism hovering around the fantasy genre. Most of the fun comes from picking apart the hallmarks of the bloodsucker game, exposing them for the lame parlor tricks and absurd handicaps they really are. Mystically swapping a plate of noodles for worms, for example, to the mild annoyance of the victim. Failing to enter a nightclub because the bouncer doesn't explicitly invite them in. In most films, these would be appetizers for the main entree, but in this case there's no second course. This would've made for a brilliant skit on a sketch comedy show, but it just doesn't have the depth for its own feature-length. Even a very short one.
Love at first bite
Directors Taika Waititi and Jermaine Clement also star in this low budget mockumentary of a group of vampires sharing a house in modern day New Zealand. They argue about housework, they have a slave who do various tasks for them including getting victims round for dinner and some blood. The vampires hit the town at night to go to nightclubs to maybe find victims for blood, but they really are the oldest rockers in town ill suited to the 21st century. They also fall foul of other mutants such as a pack of werewolves that they can smell from a mile off. Waititi & Clement have fun picking apart the vampire conventions, checking for daylight the first thing to do when they wake up in the evening, make sure the blood of the victims do not get everywhere when the victims are attacked, even hypnotism and flying. Things take a turn when a victim called Nick becomes a vampire. He invites a human friend to stay with them. Nick also boasts to strangers that he is a vampire which leads to Petyr, the oldest vampire to being killed. For vampire Viago it is also a sad love story who followed his true love but got posted elsewhere.
GREAT movie. Never gets old.
Original, fun, hilarious, intriguing. I never get sick of this movie. The humor is funny every time I watch it. Never gets old.
I love comedies in general and parodies in particular, but I'm not a big fan of vampires movies. But what about the parody of a vampires movie? I chose to watch 'What We Do in the Shadows', mainly because the film is written and directed by Taika Waititi - one of the hottest names on the movie market today, the author of 'Jojo Rabbit' - here alongside Jemaine Clement. The two also play two of the roles within the vampire quartet who spend a portion of eternity in a haunted house in the city of Wellington of our days. In fact better said the Wellington of our nights, because the active life of the vampires begins, as we all know, at nightfall, when they can go out without fear to lure and hunt their victims and meet with others creatures of darkness, for example with werewolves. I am not sorry about the time invested, I survived in one piece and with no bites the experience, and also without becoming a vampire or a fan of vampire movies. The format used by the filmmakers is that of a parody of documentary films, a format sometimes called 'mockumentary'. A film crew (whose protection is provided by contract) is sent to film kind of a 'reality show' that presents 'around the clock' the after-death adventures of the New Zealand's vampire inhabitants. As in any movie or TV show of the genre, there are alternated live footage (most filmed at night, some even in the dark) with biographical notes and off-action comments of the vampire protagonists. The formula, once understood by the spectators, allows for the continuous unfolding of jokes and orgy drunkenness with blood, of the comic and horror sequences, sometimes interleaved, other times combined. A considerable dose of ketchup and other red liquids finds plenty usage throughout the film. The schema works very well. The effect I think depends on the viewers' adherence to the parodied genre and the familiarity with the comic characters transferred into the vampire space. I believe that fans of the genre will find many familiar references, and for them the jokes will more easily reach their targets. Viewers who know the team of actors and directors will find familiar characters in new situations. For the less initiated viewers - myself among them - the result is partial. I smiled pretty much all the time and laughed moderately at many moments, but I didn't roll on the floor with laughs, as at the most successful comedies. Something in the style with which Taika Waititi addresses elements of popular culture is also felt in this film. He does not avoid the kitsch, I can even say that he is looking for it, but under his guidance parody loses any nuances of vulgarity. Unlike in 'Jojo Rabbit', in 'What We Do in the Shadows' fun is more important than the message. And that's OK. A recent news item names the New Zealand director as the author of a future series in the 'Star Wars' cycle. Now I have become curious!
Awesome NZ Comedy
The three lead vampires in this film were absolutely fantastic, especially Jonathon Brugh (His solo dance routine was one of the most awkwardly hilarious things I have ever seen!). I loved all three of the main characters and their interactions with Stu. I was laughing the whole way through this film which is continuously funny. I actually found some of the scenes to be quite frightening, especially when the vampires are chasing one of their victims through their home! This scene was one of my favourites. I don't think it needed to be a mockumentary though. Sometimes the shots were purposefully too long which felt unnecessary and just slowed the pace of the film. Some of the jolty, hand-held camera shots could be a bit annoying too. Otherwise, I loved it and definitely recommend it! I hope it claims top spot for its opening weekend in NZ.
Put together from 125 hours edited down to 90 minutes (!) the outline co-writers/co-directors/co-stars Jemaine Clement & Taika Waititi works incredibly well,thanks to the (largely improvised) gags being based around the building of the friendship between all of the vampires and the fall-out from their trip to the masquerade ball. Basing each vampire off specific vamps from famous films,Clement and Waititi bring out superb character comedy in the awkward differences each vamp shares,from the classical romantic Viago,to the modern day pretty boy Nick.
Bringing the life of the vamps to a light in a Found Footage format,the directors do occasionally break the rule of the genre with unnatural camera positions,but make up for it by the dashing tracking shots stabbing the flick with an urgency of each punch-line being caught in the moment. Keeping the budget low,Clement and Waititi cleverly use CGI effects sparingly in order to sink their fangs into the relationships,with smoothly handled CGI transformations matching the transformations taking place within the gang. Entering as outsiders, Stu Rutherford (who was originally hired to work on the CGI!) and Cori Gonzalez-Macuer give great dead- pan performances as Stu and Nick,whilst Waititi and Vladislav hilariously layer on the Gothic flamboyance as Vladislav and Viago,who get lost in the shadows.
Wanted to like it, I was bored to tears
The premise is fun, Jemaine Clement is in it, I thought this was going to be a cool movie no matter what. It was not. They went too far with the reality TV documentary style and after one hour and a half of following silly people around who are just incidentally vampires or werewolves or whatever, I was just praying for it to just end. Some jokes were funny, but certainly not laughing out loud stuff. The acting was OK, given the plot, but really, it was a total bore. Add to this the overwhelmingly positive reviews that made me expect something so much better and it all resulted in a terrible disappointment.
A deliciously great time
I hadn't heard about this until now... boy, what a treat. The ensemble cast is utterly fantastic, very devoted to every second of comedy that is juiced out of this film's content and subject. The "vampire mockumentary" plot is something that I don't think anyone eve dreamed of, but it's utterly devoted to making every comedy worth it and it succeeds. There are a few sore spots here and there, but overall this was a great time. Definitely something for moviegoers to seek out next year, it really does add a lot of the horror/comedy genre and I think it could be a real hit across nations. I strongly recommend it, and it has a great attitude about itself that won't turn people away.
Dead... but delicious!
Pretty dang funny! Four vampires share a flat in New Zealand, and this mockumentary follows them! (Petyr was my favorite - totally old school!) The more you "know" about vampires, the more you'll enjoy this! And there are werewolves too - Werewolves, not Swear-Wolves! This is fun and very well made! "Dead but delicious"!
childish jokes but it works out fine
Ahaaaa, what is this for a weird flick I can tell you. It's pure stupidity and the kind of humour that isn't for anybody but I enjoyed it somehow. Let me be clear, it isn't for all the geeks out there. I can't say that I laughed it out loud like some British zomcoms for example. But what makes it also worth seeing is that you are just looking for the jokes here and there and the fact that you forget to watch the effects used, they are worth seeing, climbing on the walls, changing into bats, you know your typical vampire stuff. You love or hate this flick, as simple as that.
Outstanding, The Office meets The Flying Conchords
I laughed and laughed and laughed. This is not a Vampire Movie, this is a mockumentary about some flatmates who happen to be vampires, just, y'know, incidentally. It is laugh-out-loud (LOL, young people) funny for extended periods. There is a lot of under-stated humour, but it has the feel of Peter Jackson's Bad Taste, made on weekends over an extended period - "what can we do in this scene to make it even funnier?" Being from NZ, I feel unsure whether I am on the the inside of an in-joke (the police officers, for example) but plenty of people seemed to get the Conchords, so who knows, really. If you "get" The Office and you "get" The Conchords, you'll love it.
Sometimes the scariest thing about being a vampire is doing the dishes
This fly-on-the-wall mockumentary is a refreshingly silly take on a genre that desperately needed sending up - vampires. If you thought vampire movies had reached saturation point, think again, because What We Do In The Shadows manages to lend it a thankfully comical bent. Taika Waititi and Jermaine Clement lead a solid cast of Kiwi actors playing a small group of inept but lovable bloodsuckers living in a flat together in Wellington. When a freshly turned convert starts bragging about his newfound vampire status while out clubbing, things start going wrong for the troupe, who until then had only to contend with minor problems like what to wear on a night out when your wardrobe is 400 years out of fashion, and how to go clubbing when nobody will invite you in the door. Vampire gags come thick and fast and there's enough of a solid plot to keep the movie entertaining. It even gets a little bit tense in places when the flatmates start to fall out over the new convert's bad behaviour. All in this is a very funny film, with more than a few classic one-liners. A great date movie to check whether your lover-to-be can handle a little dark humour. Highly recommended.
What We Do in the Shadows: 9 out of 10: A mockumentary (I hope) about a group of vampires sharing a flat in New Zealand and the various challenges that befall them. I have now regained hope in the mockumentary formula. Like many of you, I had sat through one mockumentary after another with diminished returns. Similar to the joke a second "Airplane" style movies, mockumentaries seemed destined to dwell in a land of talentless hacks looking for an easy movie to make on a low budget. So what does What We Do in the Shadows do differently than other recent mockumentaries. Well, it is laugh out loud funny... yeah, I am going to go with that. Okay fine, good acting, excellent story and premise, fresh takes on well-worn tropes and plenty of surprises. An entertaining time that has regained my faith in a tired genre. But really it is very funny check it out
If you liked spinal tap or best in show
you'll probably love this- it follows the mockumentary format excellently but ups the ante because its following a cast of actual (in the worldof the movie) vampires. (oh and some werewolves make a hilarious cameo.). But within the conceit of being a mockumentary its played totally straight. The few special effects scenes are really well done for the budget and all the more powerful because they knew to do it sparingly.
At last, a vampire movie that doesn't suck
I'm in the twilights of my years and no longer part of "Generation Twilight", so initially I wasn't so hot on a vampire mockumentary. The idea seemed good enough for maybe 30 minutes of comedy, and not for a full feature movie. But What We Do In The Shadows is brilliantly done and really buckets of fun. It rides on the great actors, but also on a wonderful script and an ingenious mix of wobbly "porno camera" and perfectly placed special effects.
Brilliant
jabberwockynz19 June 2014
When you very nearly spray a mouthful of drink over the person in front of you, its generally a good indicator the movie is pretty funny. The sandwich joke had me in stitches! This movie doesn't rely on just a few jokes to carry it, they maintain a subtle layer of humour throughout and then have you in stitches with some brilliant jokes. The cast in this movie are well picked, and Stu was brilliantly played by...well Stu. Taiki Waititi & Jemaine Clement really get the whole dilemma of everyday life as a vampire! Hopefully this gets picked up and the masses get a chance to enjoy this wee gem. Loved this movie and would definitely recommend it. Gave this a 10. A must see!!
Fangtastic Fun!
The comedy horror is so hard to get right. Then using the Vampire genre and the equally overused mockumentary style you are pushing a boulder up hill. So the mere fact that this film feels fresh and leaves me wanting more is more than a poke, yes there is more than a poke, in the right direction. Great performances by all, apparently a lot of it is improvised but the script is well versed in vampire lore and flatting mannerism, nicely produced and well paced. New Zealand seems to have a talent for comedy horror. Peter Jackson's Brain Dead is perhaps the pinnacle and this from Taika Waititi and Jermane Clement is close on it heels. Gags and gore in equal abundance with a beating heart at its center, entrails to the left. Check it out!
A great 
Absurdly Funny!
I watched this movie, knowing nothing about it before, and it completely blew me away. It had me gut-busting from the very first scene throughout the entire movie. The premise of vampire flatmates is absurd, but it works great, because the movie takes its characters just serious enough for the audience to be somewhat emotionally invested in them. The chemistry between the actors is also great. But of course, the biggest strength of the movie is, that it delivers laughs on a very consistent level. Seriously, there was probably a joke every minute, that made me laugh so hard, I cried. I really don't wanna oversell this one, but I think this might be the funniest mockumentary since "This is Spinal Tap". If you like mockumentaries, dark comedy, vampires, or are just generally into humor, definitely go see this one. This is the funniest movie of the year so far, but I'm sure, that won't change.
Lot's of people are disregarding this movie due to "Lack of plot" or "Poor cinematography". This isn't supposed to be that sort of movie, it's a mockumentary, done in the style of a documentary. They have nailed that look perfectly, and the plot doesn't matter in a comedy. The comedy is great, the deadpan nature of it is hilarious, the jokes are brilliant. Go in with the open mind that it's not your classic style of comedy. I think it's a great movie.
Excellent, original, fun
This is one very amusing movie. Not taking itself too seriously, but managing to bring freshness and originality and many many new angles to the vampire genre. It is witty, it looks nice and is wholeheartedly recommended.
Unrelentingly funny
I wasn't sure about this one, I cannot remember anything about Flight of the Concords (sp?) and comedy is a sticky thing for me. I find that I laugh out loud more often during dramas, horror, thrillers etc than comedies. I thought GRAND BUDAPEST, ZERO THEOREM and THE DOUBLE were hilarious. But this surprised me... a lot. Blade, Twilight, Werewolves, Zombies, they all make an appearance. The plot is actually quite funny in itself... it isn't meaty by any means, but it is also a joke: as the documentary team follows three vampires 'flatting' together: one who is very... camp, shall we say, another who is self-described as being hot... because he is a vampire, of course, and another who seems like a satirical-take on your stereotypical long-hair/metal-head. Oh, and an 8,000 year old friend who doesn't seem to possess the skills of communication. They begin to talk the crew through how they try to socialise, which leads to some amusing scenes of vampires trying to have a nightlife. Then they talk the crew through how they capture/seduce people in order to drink their blood. More funny scenes follow, leading to one of these victims escaping from the flat. Of course he doesn't die, he becomes the new vamp in the gang. But.. He's young, he's stupid, he is not even over a hundred years old! When he introduces his human friend to his vampire friends, you just know its not gonna go well. I won't go any further, but from here the plot delves the movie into comedic chaos. I was missing jokes because I was laughing at the ones previous! There are no immature fart jokes here, there aren't any jokes that make you cringe in their lame delivery.... Even though they are throwing a lot of crud at the wall, most of it sticks. It is also filled with comedic variety. Physical humour, plain old slapstick, facial expressions/body language (especially that camp vampire who always leads the doco crew around, his facial expressions and eye-movements when following the cameras cracked me up every time), and obviously sarcasm and satire are underlying themes. This thing felt that it was running on all cylinders for the entire movie. It also manages to feel effortless; there was no sense of them trying too hard for laughs - the mockumentary setting helped the film in this sense, despite the plot being thin. But, the wide range of comedy used, from slapstick to satire and everything in between, is probably the biggest reason why this movie does not feel forced. I walked out of this movie in pain from laughter. After only 87 minutes! The entire place was in stitches for the entire movie, and I saw people from all ages as I walked out, all with giant grins, talking about this or that scene. I'm chuckling as I am writing this as its stimulating my memory and I am seeing it in my head.
Weird, wacky and fun!
A few months ago, thanks in part to a Kickstarter campaign, What We Do in the Shadows arrived in film festivals all over the world...and audiences were stunned! Why? Because it's one weird, very weird movie! The film is a marvelous mockumentary that makes fun of the current reality television fad. In many ways, it's like an MTV series like "The Real World" or "Jersey Shore"....meets "Twilight"!! Somehow, a film crew gained access to a strange home where four vampires lived. And, it's in tiny Wellington, New Zealand of all places! According to the film, this unlikely place is actually a hotbed of vampires, werewolves, zombies and more...and these four undead guys are allowing some humans to come into their previously hidden lives. The residents of this home are a motley and mostly lovable group of loser vampires ranging from the rather likable Viago to the incredibly scary and Nosferatu-like Petyr and you follow them through the course of their evenings over a period of many months. While this idea is crazy and a bit silly, the joke could have worn thin very quickly--and it probably would have with lesser filmmakers and actors. Instead, the film maintains a wonderful tongue-in-cheek mood throughout and constantly delivers laughs...and, oddly, a lot of charm (well, that is when the guys aren't feeding off Wellingtonians). It also really helps that you like these folks! The bottom line is that this film is completely unique and fun...and if you see it with your friends, they won't believe what they're watching! And, they'll thank you for suggesting it. By the way, I happened to have actually been in Wellington last September and I don't recall having seen any zombies, witches, werewolves or vampires. Of course, I didn't happen to be there at night....
Every few years in New Zealand, a secret society holds The Unholy Masquerade. A film crew is allowed into the lives of some vampires who are part of the secret society of supernatural beings such as witches, zombies and werewolves. Viago (Taika Waititi), Nazi vampire Deacon (Jonathan Brugh), Vladislav (Jemaine Clement) and ancient Petyr live together in a house in Wellington struggling with everyday vampire drama. Jackie is Deacon's human familiar who is frustrated with the lack of upward mobility.
This is a great concept, a funny group and terrific deadpan humor. It's a brilliant entry into the mockumentary genre. It's too warped of an idea for Christopher Guest to come up with. This comic group isn't always the funniest for me but this movie hits all the vampire tropes on the head. It also works as a horror spoof. It's loads of fun.
Let me start with: I don't like "reality TV" at all. And there is a reason you have to put "", because it is anything but real. And while this isn't real either (obviously), it is so much more fun than anything and feels more like what good reality TV could be ... if there where Vampires that is.
The basics are clear. As is the fourth wall that is practically not existent, because we are in the middle of it all. Does it always make sense? Of course not, that is the nature of shows like that. How did the camera get in there beforehand? But at least the camera (or the guy holding it) get recognized a lot. The group of people behind this are popular, maybe not worldwide, before this movie came out, but at least "at home". And it shows, because of the chemistry they have. This is very well written and acted. Comedy timing is essential and in this case awesome.
Goes down as One of My Favourite Comedies
Going into this movie knowing nothing but the above, I did not have any idea what to expect. What I got was one of the funniest movies of this year or any year for that matter. The jokes where brilliant and more importantly, they were frequent and consistently brilliant. I loved the interaction of the main characters with each other and the supporting characters. Each of the main vampires had their moments and were all equally funny. The movie even had werewolves and they were also hilarious. I was also surprised by the special effects which were really well done. At one point it did feel like the jokes were getting old, but just as I had finished that thought, the movie changes and ends brilliantly. Even though there isn't much of a story, it doesn't really matter for this movie. Just watching some of the hilarious chaos that ensues in their everyday life is enough. There are not many movies that make me actually laugh out loud, but this one did on several occasions (usually comedies, even great ones, just keep me grinning through out). This is easily one of the most enjoyable experiences I have had at the cinema.
At first the title seemed kind of Corny...
Gave this film a chance, and I'm glad I did. Beautifully located in New Zealand. Glad to see that Taika Waititi has now starred in, written and directed the new Thor movie - good for him!
0 out of 0 found this helpful. Was this review helpful? Sign in to vote.
New Zealand Gangsta movie
A great story and direction from Taika Waititi combined with superb acting makes this movie a must see. Sam Neill and Julian Dennison are brilliant in the lead roles showing humour and pathos in equal measure. A great family movie.
A Very Delightful Film
This film caught me by surprise with its modern yet classic comedic acting, beautiful cinematography, and promising storyline.
I'll be honest its been maybe a week since I've first seen this film but it has been great to revisit. The film is modern but somehow avoids the boring pitfalls that many modern movies deal with when it comes to teenagers, technology, and short love stories, Its funny and a very enjoyable film! Must watch!
Astronomically Overrated.
I was optimistic about this film considering the high rating. Unfortunately, it's really not worthy of such a high score and I'm bewildered as to why it has. It's not awful but it isn't a very engaging or interesting film. I wouldn't watch it again again or recommend it.
A True New Zealand Film; Just Watch it!
Hunt for the Wilderpeople is a supremely sensational survival/manhunt through the beautiful bush areas, with an astounding cast and surprising storytelling. Taika Waititi's New Zealand comedy-drama journey makes one of the best films of 2016. Apart from the extremely intriguing concept originally written by Barry Crump, this film is beautifully shot, entertaining, funny and the pacy movement of the plot is more than fantastic.
The film opens up with an amazing view of endless bushland with perfect music in the background consisting of "Makutekahu". The cinematography continues to depict the big green areas and also contains several moments to play interesting soundtracks and tone-matching songs you'll search the internet for afterwards. The entire thing is completely entertaining and there's no defects in either of the chapters.
The reason standing out in plain sight that beats most of 2016's movies is the story, characters and how thoroughly it's told in an outstanding runtime. The author of the original book deserves most of the acclaim, but talented performers Sam Neill, Julian Dennison and Rachel House are immense when merged together, one a grumpy old man, one a quirky social worker, and "bad egg" foster child Ricky Baker.
If you liked this review, check out the full review and other reviews at aussieboyreviews.
Majestical movie
So unique, authentic, entertaining, funny and well done! Beautiful images, great montage and simply brillant movie, I have rewatched it five times already!
Enchanting- and beautiful
A heart warming story without lots of schmaltz. And all the better for that.
One of the best films I've seen in years. I only just watched it today.
Perfectly cast, directed and produced. The story is told with a light touch- which makes it all the more deeply moving.
I think I may just rewatch it right now.
A majestical film that I can't believe it took me this long to watch
I went into this film upon reading and hearing reviews about it but I read nothing about it so my expectations were based off the reviews and the fact that Taika Waititi was directing, and I must say my expectations were fairly high from the reviews and this is a film that you have to watch to understand. This film exceeded my expectations but at the same time, I expected nothing less of a Taika Waititi film.
The film follows newcomer, at the time, Julian Dennison and his uncle played by Sam Neill as they embark on a journey across the New Zealand bush as they are being chased down by the country's authorities. The acting here is great and this film shines with their dynamic as they bounce of each other flawlessly with the offbeat comedy writing. This is what Waititi does so well and has proven on his films made after this one. He knows how to write a comedy film with a lot of heart and charm. You may not get invested in the characters as it doesn't go that deep into them, but you definitely do root for them and laugh at the wild jokes that they say: some are tame, some are dark and for the most part they do land. You will laugh out loud. When I say for the most part though, I mean there are some jokes that are predictable and some that just don't get any reaction. This was probably due to the characters delivering the jokes weren't characters I was particularly fond of. What's notable about the writing is the fact that the conversations are quite blunt and to the point and more realistic humour, which in itself is a whole subversion of most comedies that have jokes from awkward beat around the bush conversations. No pun intended.
The only other downside is the film does take a moment at the start to get you into the 1 hour 41-minute film. It follows a slow pace but then it picks up significantly as the events of the film unfold. This is a minor thing and worth the sit through at the start.
Overall, the film contains a lot of heart and a huge feel-good factor about it and it was a refreshing film to watch. There was no massive blockbuster pieces or crazy intensity, just an easy watch to smile at. I can't believe I didn't watch this earlier.
Started off great
I was told by many that this was a good movie, and it is, but not as amazing as others think. It started off great and progressed keenly until the final fifteen minutes then it went off the trails. It was so far off, it got lost in the outback. The end had some good moments, but what started as a quirky and entertaining movie ended up being ridiculous at the very end.
Good cast, good script, good humor, but I did not like the ending.
Funny and fun
A story about bonding and family done in a quirky New Zealand style with oddball characters and heart. Good for the whole family too. It's dry humour is akin to Napoleon Dynamite but with accents/
Totally Unique.
COULD HE TOP 'JO JO'?...
YEP!... THIS GUY IS AMAZING AT PULLING PERFORMANCES FROM KIDS.
WORRY ABOUT ANYONE WHO DOES NOT LIKE THIS ONE...AND WOULD LOVE TO ASK THEM WHY...IN HONOR OF A TRUE ARTIST, I GOT DVDS OUT TO HALF A DOZEN FRIENDS AND A COUPLE SPARES...
An absolute gem
What a wonderfully charming, quirky and totally fabulous film. Loved it!
Apparently I need 150 characters. I said it all above really but JUST WATCH IT!
"We didn't choose this life, this life chose us!"
How many films have already been made on the topic of finding oneself and one's place in this world, but it is "Hunting for Savages" that I want to note separately!
There is nothing new in the story of how a difficult child with a "criminal" past ends up with guardians living on the outskirts of civilization and tries to escape back to freedom, but Taika Waititi just added freshness with his vision, not only working out the characters as much as possible, but also chose the right characters for their roles.
I have nothing to say about Sam Neil - he is a high-level actor who has recently appeared less and less in the first roles. But I won't be silent about Julian Dennison, whom I had previously only seen in the Deadpool sequel - the guy is really intelligent, although his current roles are almost identical to each other. Who knows, in the future he will have a good career waiting for him if his heroes do not get the better of him.
The characters in this movie are half the battle! The second half is the work of the director, who always saw what was happening on and off the screen in his own way. And as a beautiful wrapper - the natural and wildlife of New Zealand, alluring with its beauty and innocence. Do I need anything else to watch this movie? That was enough for me.
A Joy From Start To Finish.
This is the sort of movie that proves that awards like the Oscars and The Golden Globes are actually pointless. This received many nominations and awards, except for the Oscars and Golden Globes and quite frankly, this movie was one of the best movies released in 2016.
The entire cast is outstanding, but, how was Sam Neill not even considered for an Oscar nomination?
Taika Waititi has a great knack of getting stellar performances from young actors and this is no exception, Julian Dennison was amazing and, may I suggest a best supporting actor nomination should have gone his way.
It's quirky, beautifully written and directed, it has a real heart to it and I could watch it over and over again.
If you get a chance you must see it if you like proper storytelling and having every emotion tugged at from happiness to terrible sadness, but, never done heavy handedly.
An absolutely deserving 10/10.
Fun and funny quirky surprise
Great quirky movie full of chuckles and heart warming at the same time. Totally surprised and enjoyable. Good for all ages. Pleasant surprise and recommended.
Fantastic movie!! Wonderful ride
This is one of the best movies I have seen in a long time. It is endearing, funny, real, and keeps you guessing what's next. The only reason it's an 8 instead of a 10 for me is the very ending ( don't want to spoil it) but i would have liked for more. But also the ending is more realistic to the story line and a positive one. I also love the Lord of the Rings reference because I was totally thinking that. I also found the antagonist the perfect comedic blend within her acting. A must watch movie.
The Funniest Film I watched for a long time.
Great job from Taika for making this film and all the actors in it.
Love the film, superb!
I don't like rewatching films, but this one I will not get tired of reawatching again and again.
Thank you to everybody who are part of this film. Taika is one amazing and talented director/writer.
Heart-warming and Funny!
The humour is a little bit on the exaggerated side, but honestly I thought that was really great. I am a fan of the directors other films though (Thor: Ragnarok) & (What We Do in the Shadows).
The story is really sweet, it's about a boy who finds family in the most unusual place, and warms the heart of his grumpy foster Uncle. The boy is considered unruly and defiant, but he really does find his way on this adventure.
Definitely worth a watch! I loved everything about it.
I cannot sing these praises high enough!!
I am happy to say I enjoyed this jewel! Balance of comedy, emotion, seriousness, scenery, great acting & a great ending to boot. Good job to everyone involved in making this masterpiece!!
Majestical
Ricky Baker has been in the foster system his entire life, and he's being sent to a new home again,, for the umpteenth time. Luckily for him,, he's going to live with Bella and Hector, a lovable middle aged woman and her scraggly, bushman husband. At first, Ricky has no clue what to make of the cheerful Bella and crabby Hector. After a short time though, he begins to get comfortable with Bella, and on somewhat livable terms with Hector. Ricky starts to believe he's actually found a home,, until life happens, that is.
This is a delightful romp from Waititi (no big shock there). Neill and Dennison make for quite the entertaining duo as they trek through the New Zealand bush. It's a 7.4 rating all the way!!
A wonderful ride
The song, the characters, the rhythm of the plot are all great but the tone is the real magic. The balance of humor, sadness, and quirky-ness plus the acting and scenery have made it stick with me long after I watched it.
If you have not seen it, don't read most of the reviews ... this is a safe one !
It's a good movie with some twists and turns that work better if you don't know that they are coming.
A cast which was totally new and unfamiliar to me (other than the flawless Sam Neill) made for an enjoyable viewing experience. You will laugh, you will cry (or at least mist up), you will see the parallels with UP and you probably won't care. It's an old fashioned "nice " movie with terrific scenery, terrific characters and it is worth finding. Just don't read the reviews ahead of time ! (except this one)
Engaging
Entertaining storyline with good characters but not mean to be taken seriously. Gets downright silly towards the finale. Would have added stars except they did the required single blasphemy that's so dear to the hearts of the film industry.
Good show, interesting backgrounds of mountain people. No stress to watch no horrible violence, good family movie
Touching story about an orphan boy, very rebellious, who is placed in the perfect home for his needs. His main attachment is the wife and her husband is not interested in the boy at all. All too soon the husband and boy are forced by circumstance to stick together; the law and social services are hunting them down.
Perfectly executed
This movie seamlessly weaves tragedy and comedy into a delicate storyline. Punctuated by dry humor, it brings a childlike view of the world into the worst situation, constantly one-upping itself. Not only does the plot line keep one mesmerized, but the acting is phenomenally understated. Balance is the key word, and this film walks the tight rope with expertise.
Boring & Depressing
Hunt for the Wilderpeople is not funny. It's boring, and, frankly, pretty depressing. They kill off the most entertaining character in the first part of the movie.
One of the best movies I've ever seen
Loved everything about it it's hilarious, entertaining and emotional taika watiti knows what he's doing when it comes to directing movies.
Loved it!
Found this on Netflix under the "hidden gems" category. And it is. Funny, adventurous, and poignant. I think the actor who plays Ricky Baker has a bright future; he manages to be cute and sweet without being saccharin. Highly recommend.
Pixar's "Up" for Adults
Hunter for the Wilderpeople is what happens when you have a director who is confident in his abilities, perfect casting, and great source material. From start to finish, there is a unique tone and feel to this film that is largely driven by Taika Waititi. His films have instant identity, and he is not afraid to be quirky in his approach to storytelling. The humor is rapid, eccentric, and hilarious. From the Ricky Baker Birthday song to the "Just Got Real" scene, I was laughing out loud for most of this film.
Yes, the film has a jarring number of similarities to the classic Pixar film "Up", however, the hilarity and witty dialogue made up for that. Julian Dennison is a treasure and his chemistry with Sam Neill was an unexpected treat. Hunt for the Wilderpeople is an exceptional and unexpected break from what is typically shown in cinema.
Genuinely enjoyable!!
From the very beginning, this film breathes an authenticity that stands out from any survival/ buddy adventure I've experienced. It's a truly unique journey through a world I've never visited, but with plenty of pertinent chuckles to keep me on the path. What an absolute gem..!
One of the Best Movies I've seen in a While
This movie was refreshing, and a although it has been out since 2016 it felt new in an age where movies are seemingly recycled rather than out. There must have been a dozen times throughout this movie I found myself choking up with emotion and I was grateful for it, there were ups and downs, and even the downs were up in the end. I wholeheartedly recommend this movie to anyone who has yet to see it.
Charming little gem
A little predictable and cheesy in places but overcome by wonderful performances, interesting characters, beautiful scenery and a heartwarming story.
Live action UP
Its an emotional, funny, action packed story with great story telling and the character development is great, it's a great taika waititi film, like all of his others.
Majestical indeed
This movie took me by surprise. It's one I have skipped over numerous times and finally decided why not, nothing else to watch. I should have watched this AGES AGO! This movie is funny, sad, heartwarming... it really is a movie about love and family. Yes there is some gore, profanity, death, and sadness. But there is also happiness, love, and hope in this movie. At the end you walk away with a smile and wanting to hug your family. I would recommend anyone watch this movie.
Watch this if you need a pick-me-up
This movie is sweet, genuine, funny and feel-good. I found it at the perfect time and it's definitely one I'll watch again. Perfect for if you're having a bad day or need a reminder that there's beauty and good in the world.
Happy-sad Cinema
A film that is beautifully shot and well written. It is an endearing, fish out of water, coming-of-age story that has a lot of heart. The only glaring flaw of Hunt for the Wilderpeople is the cute, but cliche ending.
People are giving this movie like 8 and 9 star reviews. Imagine you're watching this movie and the clip where the dog dies comes up "so funny and family-friendly. Definitely for kids under 2 years old so they can watch a dog get brutally killed by a wild boar, and then get shot. Man, how funny is that?" 100% family-friendly for someone who likes killing pets. So if you could never review family-friendly on a movie where the main character dies like 15 minutes in and a dog dies, that would be nice.
Nope
The good lady dies within 15 minutes and a boar gore's the dog Zag an 1 hour in. It has numerous cuss word and profanity. There is also tons of gore.
Waititi is an author to reckon with, this well crafted movie confirms it
A grumpy older man and a an haiku-prone foster kid are thrown together by circumstances, and end up evading the police through New Zealand wilderness.
"ninjas! Dire-wolves! Child welfare!" is a line that sums up well the absurd yet endearing humor of this film.
As a director, Taika Waititi reminds me more and more of Guillermo del Toro, able to move from blockbuster movies for Hollywood to very personnel movies on their home turf, affirming their own brand of stylishness and writing. The other thing they both have is an eye and love for actors. The pairing of veteran Sam Neil and young Julian Dennison is gold.
This is a road movie with two very relatable people crossing paths with a range of strange characters, each encounter defining the relationship of the man and the child a little deeper.
I believe you won't regret spending a couple of hours hunting for the Wilderpeople.
A Majestical Movie.
Fantastic film of the developing bond between a fat kid and Uncle Hec. Features the Skuxx life, crime, death, jet packs, and a good ole shoot out.
"Why do you reckon he calls himself Psycho Sam?
I really enjoyed this. It's warm hearted without straying into schmaltz for one second, laugh out loud funny and the New Zealand scenery is absolutely stunning. Don't you just love a feel good movie when it's done as well as this?
It should be on netfixt it a good movie to wach can you put heap mode movie and tv show on netfixt can you put cartoon and kids movie.
Surprised at the high ratings and great reviews
I only watched this film because of the high user rating on IMDB and great reviews, so I was surprised at how formulaic, cliche-ridden and clunky it was. I can see why it appeals to kids without too many expectations, but to an adult, it feels like one of those children film foundation films they put on in Brirish cinemas at the Saturday morning show in the 70s with a few adult jokes put in to make it seem more current. After the first half hour it became predictable and ran out of steam.
I'd recommend Jo Jo Rabbit if you want to see a better, more original example of Waititi's work.
0 out of 5 found this helpful. Was this review helpful? Sign in to vote.
Funny and adventurous
Hunt for the Wilderpeople is funny all around. It has funny comments, jokes, and people, along with humorous action that is also exciting.
If you can't find any other better movie then watch this one. Because while Hunt for the Wilderpeople is a great movie it's still not incredible.
FUN WITH THE WILDERPEOPLE
This is a cracking little movie with great performances from Neill and Dennison. Some hilarious scenes and lines. Love Kiwi humour.
An absolutely terrific romp in some awesome scenery.
Don't miss this!
Wonderful!
A new approach to the coming of age film. Funny, charming, touching. Sam Neil crushes it (as always. Rhys Darby (Murray Present!) and the entire cast are great. Masterful direction, incredible scenery, great soundtrack. A nearly flawless movie.
1 out of 1 found this helpful. Was this review helpful? Sign in to vote.
Heartwarming adventure elevated by dry wit
Light hearted and whimsical with a couple plot twists that take the film to unexpected places. It has some great dead-pan humour typical to Waititi and many other New Zealand comedies. Perfectly paced with an excellently curated soundtrack, it manages to drift into some sentimentality without overtly sappy pandering.
Why you must watch Hunt for the Wilderpeople
Never before have I watched a movie that is so memorable, enjoyable, comedic and contains the re-watch value that this one has.
It is a New-Zealand film with a tiny 2.5 mill budget. It goes to show that quality really doesn't require a big stack of Hollywood cash.
The acting is realistic, the scenery and camerawork is great from a technical level and the film has a satirical sense of humour; being semi self-conscious when something is too ridiculous to be true. Taika Watiti plays a cameo role in it, you will know what I mean when you watch it. The characters are likeable and the directing and choreography is well planned.
While story is quite simple, the way its been written makes each and every character have more personality and individuality than most "characters" from other high budget films.
It also has a realistic, well-thought-out and satisfying ending as well that left a good feeling in the stomach upon it ending. Overall, my main message is "WATCH THE FILM."
"Majestical"
Another great movie of Taila Waititi, full of laughs but also witty and heartful moments. Great camera, great actors, great soundtrack! Watch it!
Hunt for the Wilderpeople
5/10 - I guess I just didn't see what many others found in this not very funny earlier Taika Waititi project.
The Legend of Ricky Baker
Only the Kiwis can make a film like this - the humour, the landscape, the life lessons and the actors. I came across it on SBS World Movies and enjoyed it immensely. Wayward boys are now sent on boot camps in the bush to teach them basic skills and values. Through this adventure, Ricky, a master at haiku, finds a family where he can belong.
Did I watch the same movie as other reviewers?
I honestly found this movie to be quite mediocre. It was hard to follow the passing of time, as one scene was the passing of 6 weeks. Character build up and development was not great in my opinion. I also found anything intended to be funny came across quite forced. I will admit that the ending was quite sweet, and possibly the only part of the movie I enjoyed. If I could take that hour and forty minutes of my life back, I wouldn't hesitate because there was really nothing to be gained from this movie.
Love it
Simple yet so heartwarming, this film has it all, the message, the laughs, the lasting effect it has on you is undeniable. Amazing film some moments of comedic genius, criminally underrated!
Great & wholesome!
I can't believe I just watched this for the first time in 2021. How had I never heard of it before? I loved the story line, it's such a funny & witty adventurous film.
"Deeply delightful"
Saw that description and it is dead on...WATCH THIS ONE!!!
Adore this film
Amazing light hearted, feel good film. Has some hilarious moments and leaves you feeling better about life. One of my favourites for sure!
Watch this one more than once
It's a true film maker that creates something like this that you just can't catch on the first viewing. A work of art in every aspect of filmmaking.
When you watch it the second, third, etc. time, the nuances of the characters in play, the scenery, editing, and viewer attachment changes. It is a living film that though it's presentation had not changed, your reaction and appreciation does.
It's a bit like reading Animal Farm when you are 16 and then again later in life.
2 out of 2 found this helpful. Was this review helpful? Sign in to vote.
It's hard to deny the mans genius
Really enjoyed this. The beginning was a little slow and I think the movie overall was a touch too long, otherwise amazing story, characters and holy crap is NZ beautiful or what? Waititi is amazing.
Positive, unlike most movies
You will not laugh your head off but this movie has a great positive feeling. It's worth to watch it, time well spent.
Nice modern fairy tale
This is a really nice, warm, fuzzy movie. It's not really outstanding in any real way, but it is good.
Embarrassingly mediocre
Well, just like many others I was drawn to the high score "this must be great, right?"....wrong! Although it starts with some amusing scenes it quickly highlights wooden acting, a poor script, and the question of why oh why does the score for the movie equal that of The Blues Brothers? Another reviewer mentioned that it was perhaps a case of the Emperor's new clothes, I tend to agree; also perhaps a fiercely loyal following from the Kiwis.....I get that they would want to celebrate their own, and the beautiful scenery which abounds.... but the film itself is really only watchable until the funeral scene and then becomes tedious. I am sure that everyone involved with the production were lovely, enthusiastic, and trying their best to make a silk purse out of a sow's ear, but sadly it remains just a sow's ear that looks like a purse.... The film is probably between 3 to 4 (no higher) but I hope my 2 will help to re-calibrate the score and act as a suitable caveat for film buffs everywhere.
Don't waste your time
I've had more enjoyable trips to the dentist. The casting of Julian Dennison makes this film so cringe worthy. It's like a commercial. The casting is so hard to stomach. The best bit.... the credits
A fantastic earlier work by Taika Waititi.
After enjoying films like Thor: Ragnarok (2017) and Jojo Rabbit (2019), I decided to watch some of director Taika Waititi's previous films. First up is Hunt for the Wilderpeople (2016), a humorous outdoor adventure that doesn't hide many of its influences, which ends up being a good thing. The plot and style are somewhat reminiscent of Moonrise Kingdom (2012) but takes advantage of New Zealand's wilderness to tell its own story. There is plenty of character development, and the two leads-played by Sam Neill and Julian Dennison-work well together to create a meaningful connection.
Anyone who has seen other New Zealand comedies are likely to enjoy the specific cultural brand of humor here that feels like an evolved version of the classic British humor of the 1960s. Hunt for the Wilderpeople uses its minor characters to deliver its humor, with Rhys Darby carrying an exceptionally funny sequence. It's this irreverent humor that hints at what Waititi's future works would become. There were plenty of instances where I could see how this film eventually influenced films like Jojo Rabbit. Sure, there are still some rough edges here, but it's nice to see what Waititi could do with the raw elements at his disposal.
Some of the musical and directorial choices here feel like an homage to Wes Anderson's style, which I certainly am not complaining about. There are still fantastic, uniquely Waititi bits, though, including a montage that seems to be shot in one continuous pan across the scenery. One can only wonder if this plot would have suffered were it not for Sam Neill and his best Harrison Ford impression, though. The vulnerability in this tough-guy façade made the adoptive father/son dynamic work well enough that it carried the whole film.
A fantastic earlier work by Taika Waititi, I give Hunt for the Wilderpeople 4.0 stars out of 5.
Gets annoying after too many watches.
I've seen this movie way too many times. I don't even enjoy it THAT much, it's just a go to movie for us kiwi's. Not the fruit. It's pretty much a kiwi classic already, everyone here loves it and everyone here loves Taika.
I don't have much to say at all, it's funny and heartfelt. It's not challenging or emotional for the most part, it's just fun and I can't even deny that. I really like most of the performances, getting the actual news anchors is pretty hilarious and almost every scene is quotable.
My favourite element is easily the script, it's consistently funny and keeps slower scenes entertaining with comedic moments riddled throughout. The locations used are also great, they're places people who live in New Zealand will likely recognise and that adds another layer of enjoyment for me.
I enjoy the score quite a lot but I'm a little biased as one of my relatives did all of the percussion... which is my favourite part of the composition. The score is only used in a couple scenes though and is not very special overall, the rest of the music is made up of pre-existing songs which all fit they're respective scenes well enough.
Check this out if you like easy going, funny fun movies. If you prefer more of a challenge you won't enjoy it unless you have been to or are from New Zealand. Being a kiwi really helps when watching Taika's movies, makes them feel far more personal than they might be.
A movie you want to keep watching
I didn't expect anything when I turned this in but thIs was one of the best movies I've watched recently. This movie has some of the most likeable characters and a story that doesn't really go anywhere but keeps you so invested. A truly haertwarming tale.
This has to be on of the best films of 2021!
I loved this film. Sam Neil gives an excellent performance. Very different from his usual roles. But it's the young boy who carries the film. It reminded me of Whale Rider. Where they cast an unknown actress in the lead. New Zealand has an exceptional range of talent.
Absolutely fantastic
This movie proves that modern comedy can be absolutely endearing, charming and funny without being crass vulga or base. A lot of credit has to go to the actors in this one. The Kiwis really know how to laugh at themselves and the cast carried it off to perfection. I've watched it four times now and laugh as hard and enjoy it as much as I did the first time. Hollywood take note: this is how it's done. You used to be good at comedy. "Uncle Buck" was endearing without being disgraceful like the buffoon in "hangover". The bad guys in "home alone" will bed but not cruel. just like the "bad guys" in this movie. Great stuff congratulations on a wonderful production.
Great Quirky Movie!
Funny movie in a very quirky way. The dialog is smart, unique, and keeps you guessing. It's a fun ride with a good warm hearted story attached. You'll enjoy this movie for it's atypical characters and funny banter!
Wholesome
This is one of the most wholesome movie I've ever watched. It's nearly faultless.
Touching, hilarious, and Unforgettable
I was not sure initially about this film, having originally seen the trailer and thinking it looked like a standard quirky, indie film. After looking into it more I realized it was directed by Taika Waititi so I adjusted my expectations and dove in.
I was pleasantly surprised, there were equal amounts of fantastic comedy hand in hand with human drama and tragedy. The relationship between Hec and Ricky feels organic and the actors play off each other incredibly well. The farcical nature of the over the top social worker Paula is also one of the excellent points of the film, providing some wonder lampooning of Hollywood archetypes.
One other thing I must call out as a point for me that really makes this enjoyable is that it never insults its audience trying to crowbar in overly idealized Hollywood style happy endings. Not to say the film ends in a sad way, far from it, but it's a realistic and three dimensional ending with fleshed out characters that do not simply ride off into the sunset in perfection. The fact that every character is flawed and human is exactly one of the finest points of the film, and the story lives up to those characters.
Highly recommend this, well worth watching.
Full of heart
The Hunt for the Wilderpeople is about a mischievous boy who is placed in a foster home. After his foster mother dies, he goes on a great adventure with his foster father trying to escape the government. This film is full of heart, funny, and really enjoyable. It's a really good story and really is another great Taika Waititi film. I rate The Hunt for the Wilderpeople a 9/10.
Shocking yet funny
It's a movie I could watch again and again it gets better as it goes along and not something to take your eyes off for a second, a wonderful film. Only one thing... I would've thought the fat kid would've ended up fit as a fiddle after his stay in the wilds.
Stories round the 'campion' fire
A creative comedy from a triple threat talent. Writing credits do go to Barry Crump whose novel, 'Wild Pork and Watercress' the story is adapted from. Eighties Hollywood is notably referenced throughout the film. How much of the budget did go to Sam Neil? All the cast, including Taika Waitiki, deliver the punchlines on cue. Released in 2016 with cinema distribution. There is, real life, romantic realism and drama in a even ratio.
HEARTWARMING.
As usual Waititi perfectly balances cartoonish humour, with adventure and genuinely moving drama. The two leads play off each other marvellously. Story so crazy. Scenery just devastatingly beautiful. The kid is great.
New Zealand talk funny
I rate this film eight I do not support big forms The skux life chose me
Taika Waititi at his best
If you like Taika Waititi's work then you are gonna love this movie. This movie is really hilarious, touching and amazing. loved it :)
Hilarious, warm and a great cast of characters
I recently rewatched this- I love how funny each moment is. The characters are well created and just a touch quirky without 'quirky' being their defining characteristic.
I now want to explore the New Zealand bush.
Additionally, the musical choices are excellent. And as always, a cameo from the director himself makes for a memorable laugh.
No Faults - Brilliant Comedy
Before I watched this film, I read nothing about it, so I wasn't sure what to expect at all. Judging by the display image on Netflix of a boy holding a gun, I thought it would have a serious undertone. I was very wrong; it was an incredibly quirky comedy.
A foster parent and an orphan hiding in the wilderness from the child safety authorities in New Zealand. That's all I'll say!
Brilliant film!
The Best Wes Anderson Movie of All Time
It's honestly as if Wes Anderson traveled forward in time, saw this movie, and based all of his movies on this one. This movie is hilarious, touching, compelling, and thought provoking. The only reason it's not 10 stars is because a few characters and scenes are over the top in a slightly annoying manner, but for the most part this movie is gold. I immediately watched it a second time, and I'll happily watch it again.
Majestical
Good movie...one could say, "Majestical". Just watch it, you'll understand.
Like Up, but Make it Gangster
Hunt for the Wilderpeople, is written and directed by Taika Waititi and stars Sam Neill and Julian Dennison. The film follows the misadventure of a young boy, named Ricky and his foster Uncle Hec, as the two escape into the wilderness all while a nationwide manhunt is underway to find the pair. Taika Waititi has made a name for himself as being a very respected writer/director, with a quirky style á la Wes Anderson and Hunt for the Wilderpeople more than solidifies his reputation.
I went into Hunt for the Wilderpeople with moderate to high expectations after hearing pretty positive praise surrounding the film, and I must say I was pleasantly surprised by the end result, enjoying the film from start to finish. It should be noted, as many other's have pointed out, that the film's framework is very similar to Pixar's Up (2009); as both films feature a disgruntled older man who has just lost someone close to him and an energetic young boy who has a semi-warped view of the world and lacks a parental figure. However Hunt for the Wilderpeople, does an excellent job differentiating itself from the surface level comparison and can be enjoyed just as much as the Pixar classic.
I found the bond that grew between Hec and Ricky to be heart-warming as their adventure elapsed many months, encountering all kinds of different people, problems and animals along the way. I really rooted for the pair, even when their situation grew to be more dire, I must praise Waititi in that aspect as he was able to really make the character's likeable and easy to root for. It also helps that the performances were also great with, as Neill and Dennison both gave compelling performances that were full of heart. I was particularly impressed by Julian Dennison, who I was worried was going to become loud and annoying as the movie progressed, however through his solid portrayal of Ricky, he grew to be a protagonist that I really enjoyed seeing. Although the dynamic between the two character's is a joy to watch, the film has a equally pleasing presentation that is interesting and unique in its own right. Hunt for the Wilderpeople is presented in chapters, which signifies a new point in the duo's journey, and usually hints at what's to come. The film is also really pleasing to look at, with many interesting shots, one of my favourites being how the filmmakers captured montages, with one shot pans that almost superimposed the character's moving about different parts of the forest. It's a little difficult to explain but noticeable when viewing the movie, and I thought it was a clever way to establish the journey without featuring a montage littered with jump cuts.
In closing, Hunt for the Wilderpeople is a highly enjoyable film that I see myself returning to, it's clever, heartwarming and full of adventure. Although aspects of the story do not try to reinvent the formula of a misfit-buddy film, I still took away lots from this film and is overall a treat to watch. There a many small details that I'm sure I didn't notice as you can clearly tell Waititi poured a lot of heart into the creation of this film and for that reason I am giving Hunt for the Wilderpeople a 8/10.
Theatre of the Absurd
Weirdly Engaging Adventure Story in New Zealand's Wilderness
New Zealand cinema is not often regarded as fondly as it should be outside of the likes of Peter Jackson, Jane Campion and Niki Caro, but when a breakout filmmaker like Taika Waititi comes up with something big, you know you're gonna be in for a treat. Before Waititi made it big with the likes of Thor: Ragnarok and Jojo Rabbit, he was one of New Zealand's newest up & coming filmmakers with films like Boy and What We Do in the Shadows. In between all of those films, he made a film adaptation of Barry Crump's Wild Pork and Watercress, Hunt for the Wilderpeople, which at the time was the country's highest grossing film.
Centering on juvenile delinquent Ricky Baker and his foster father Hector "Hec" Faulkner, the two become subjects of child welfare and other killers upon getting stranded in the New Zealand wilderness. It's clear from the start that this is a character driven narrative, as most of the development is based on Ricky and Hector having to work with one another just to survive. With Hector being Ricky's only father figure and the wilderness being the closest Ricky has ever felt to a close connection, partially from Hector's late wife Bella, their chemistry works the most whenever the forest forces them to work based on their surroundings. By contrast, whenever the child protective services are around, the film portrays them as sinister without painting them as soulless corporations all the time. While Ricky loathes based on what they do to kids with no foster parents left, they're only trying to do what's best for the kids despite not realizing what the child really needs. In many ways, the wilderness speaks to a niche selection of people, therefore it can never connect to the services in the same way.
In addition to the characters themselves making the journey fun, the actors do so much with the material they're given. Sam Neill and Julian Dennison are simply delightful as Hec and Ricky, especially with their basic old man vs young kid schtick bouncing off each other so well. With Neill being somewhat of a veteran in New Zealand cinema and films in general, his performance as a bitter yet well intentioned wilderness man is enough to make one feel for the man. Even the supporting cast is delightful in their own right, especially Rachel House having so much fun portraying both the good mannered yet somewhat evil side of child welfare worker, Paula Hall, and Oscar Knightley as her loyal yet voice of reason police in command, Andy. The notable characters that Hec and Ricky meet along the way range from foes against them such as three foolish hunters to genuine defenders like Kahu and her laid back father. Whether they be all for or against the two wilderpeople, these characters cement the journey as a truly harrowing experience.
In terms of cinematography, this film might be one of the most bold cinematic experiences of showcasing the outer and inner wilderness of New Zealand in history. Everytime the wilderpeople are out in the open, there's no limit of just how vast and gorgeous the forests are, from pristine plantlife, to specific shot compositions, to gorgeous lighting; it's all a sight for the eyes. Considering the film had a budget of NZ$4.5 million, the filmmakers really knew how to utilize their limitations, and even the occasional digital effect blends in well enough with the world the film is set in without coming off as jarring. In addition, the music score adds in that authentic flavor of adventurous music that you almost never quite hear anymore. If there's one genuine complaint to give the film, it would be that they occasionally rush through some key details, such as Ricky's feelings for Kahu and the resolution after the climax. While they get their points across concisely, they also feel underdeveloped and maybe could have used a little extra screen time to allow the viewers more substance from the story.
There aren't many movies I've seen that really showcase just how vastly gorgeous the countryside of New Zealand really is, especially one that was made by a native from said island. In addition to being a well crafted movie on its own, Hunt for the Wilderpeople is a thoroughly entertaining flick with enough humor and pathos to blend in with the character's journey. If you're a fan of Taika Waititi's work and are yet to see this or if you'd like to get a good flavor of New Zealand cinema, this one should totally be up your alley. After all, it ain't everyday you live the life of wilderpeople.
Another Amazing film from Director: Taika Waititi
Taika Waititi makes another great film, just like boy, brilliant humour sad happy fun and adventure, good feeling film one of my favourites
Out of the ballpark
My family LOVED this. It is charming, funny, heartfelt, etc.. The boy actor, Julian, is so good you forget he is acting. Everything about this movie from the writing to the acting is stellar. It is one of the best movies we have seen in a long time. There were times when some scenes reminded me of Detectorists, which I adored. Best show ever. Sam Neill and Julian have great chemistry together. Do not hesitate to watch this amazing movie, it will transport you into a wonderful place which is what movies are supposed to do.
"Majestical" - An Experience
A wonderful, heartfelt fun touching movie that is a delightfully unpredictable journey.
One of those films you can't help but love!
There really is something special about Taika Waititi which makes his films irresistible. Jojo Rabbit is one of my favourite films of recent times, and so I had no reservations at all about jumping into Hunt for the Wilderpeople.
It was everything I was expecting. Absolutely bonkers, intelligent, heart warming, meaningful, enjoyable, poignant and beautiful.
Most of the screen time was dedicated to Sam Neill and Julian Dennison's characters, which was great as both performances were exceptional. The two had such a believable chemistry, and the transformation of the two characters through the film was a joy to watch. Taika is brilliant at crafting unique and engaging characters, and Hunt for the Wilderpeople definitely had its share of them in the supporting cast.
The story was really engaging, nicely paced, and scripted to perfection.
Taika's direction was superb. He managed to capture the vastness and beauty of the New Zealand landscape, while also managing to hone in on the personal and close story of the two central characters. It was a feast for the eyes for sure.
The humour also hit the mark for me. This isn't an outright comedy at all, so don't expect a laugh a minute, but it injects humour in all the right places and all the right amounts.
A fantastic film!
Awesome
I was on the fence about watching this, so glad I did! It was so cute and funny. Highly recommend.
A funny adventurous film
I didn't expect much of this film at first but got straight into it. Quite cute in a way. Well worth a watch, once you get into it you will be hooked.
Highly recommend!
This movie is the perfect combination of heart warming, funny, and entertaining. The camera shots are awesome, the characters are relatable and some parts are so sweet you can't help but tear up. I watched this movie randomly, without knowing anything about it, and I was very pleasantly surprised. Would definitely watch again, and recommend others to see it!!
What a great film
I don't usually watch movies like this or what I thought was a movie like this but I'm really glad I did. It was a real find. It's a family friendly movie that is quite unpredictable in a way. I'm really impressed.
Beautiful movie
The storyline occasionally meanders but for me this is the best movie I've seen for a long time. An absolute gem.
enjoyed every minute
This is very funny and very sad, but the uplifting ending makes it somehow more than the sum of its parts. Also, there is a great track of "The Partisan," that somehow manages to be both moving and hilarious because of what is going on with it in the background.
An unexpected gem of a movie. A uniqueness to it too.
So glad they did not have the rights to sing "Happy Birthday" as the cast coming up with "Ricky Baker" birthday song was just really majestical ( to quote Shakespeare ).
This truly is a wonderfully unique movie that I would recommend anyone to watch, as it has the true highs & lows of life in it, with real sadness & real joy & laughter. I'm so glad I was lucky enough to watch this movie as it truly deserves 10 out of 10 from me as I really loved it, as like Ricky Baker rightly says family is everything.
Superb
One of the best movies I've seen in years. Sam Neil is as good as ever and the kid is wonderful. You won't be disappointed
It's OK, but not worth all the boffo accolades
I'm a bit baffled by all the fantastic reviews. Maybe Hulu edited out the best parts? I don't know. I found it cute and interesting. Nice scenery. Aside from Sam Neill's portrayal of the uncle, the characters are broad and one-dimensional. The young man starring as Ricky is fine, but doesn't have much emotional range. Maybe that's what the director wanted. It's a good little movie, but I certainly wouldn't rave about it as so many people seem to.
A great job by Taika Waititi, his cinematographer, and the crew
Waititi isn't trying to encroach on Wes Anderson's space, but if this movie were to be pitted against any of Anderson's creations, Hunt for the Wilderpeople would mop the floor with Anderson. Beats him at his own game of Wes-styled framing and shots and Wes-styled soundtracks
Taika has managed to find a set of: Killer soundtrack Killer cinematography Killer humour and jokes Killer cast and knits all of it together very organically into one really funny, feel-good comedy.
For most of movies that I rate a 10, I expect to watch something profound about the narrative and, hopefully , original about the plot. Yet, despite this movie having nothing profound in the plot (it's pretty in line with your average dad-who-doesn't-want-a-pet-gets-a-pet-and-grows-to-love-the-pet story) the execution is flawless and the humor is well-paced.
Refreshing
Took me a while to figure out that is Sam Neil. Simply an excellent movie. Great plot, acting and the music soundtrack really adds a ton. Everyone involved in making this movie really knocked it our of the park. Great NZ landscapes as well.
Flawless masterpiece!! An absolute gem!! Will watch again and again!!
Cant start to mention how many things I LOVED about this film, from the story to the cinematography to the phenomenal cast and direction. Just a breath of fresh movie air so needed right now. Perfect casting with perfect performances only movie I can compare it to would be a live action version of pixars up. Obviously I'm saying this is a must see!!!!
Everyone needs to see this movie! Full of love and world class New Zealand humor
Ordinarily Extraordinary!
Sometimes simple things are better when kept simple and ordinary. Must watch for the unconventional genre!!
Overhyped Mess
Not funny at all. The kid is basically verbally abused by everyone from the beginning; caretaker dies; dog dies; "uncle" loosely accused of molestation; kid and "uncle" are hunted. It's badly acted and directed with constant continuity errors. Waste of my time.
This has the feeling of something weird...
I get al the other stuff but you are gonna bother to mention spitting and loitering? That was a great set of shots to film I bet.
These two are a pair.
I love someone yelling out Jesus
I hope that doll has dental records.
He deserved that.
Why did she smell it?
I like the title of chapter four.
No one has any concept of gun safety.
There are no special forces in all black sneaking through the bush like that.
The moment he discovers boners.
Paula sucks.
The Knack? Like Dilbert.
A bag of snakes with holes is an empty bag.
Ricky is gangster.
Lord of the Rings is what I was thinking.
If he ever gets back to civilization he has plenty of "fun facts" for the office.
I like this font.
Now we're at Thelma and Louise.
They're not gonna shoot them.
The show motion wave is great.
If they don't let him keep Tupac...
Seriously disappointing
After all the hype, I genuinely expected so much more from this film. It has too high an opinion of itself, which is less than appealing. A disappointment from start to finish.
Hidden gem
Was very surprised by this movie and love the main characters and the experiences they go through. It is clearly a journey of maturity and growth for both, and it pulls at the heartstrings along with its comedic approach. Recommend this to everyone!!!
Funny and heartwarming
It's a little slow in spots, but not for long. Funny and heartwarming.
Best film forever
Very funy Very good Very good story The bes film ever
No film baiting here
Just finished this movie and was a great film keeping me entertained and not concerned with how long it was or was it going to be a waste or time. I usually write about films to avoid but this was GREAT 👍 ; excellent acting brought out by an exceptional director. Enough said. 🎥
Boring A Lot, But Very Damn Fun A Lot Too
This boy is as good as it could get. So much fun. I enjoyed watching this kid. He's some rebellious fat kid in Europe who loves to eat and idolizes Tupac. Doesn't get much better than this character right here.
The story was definitely boring at many spots. The main kid is just too cool for his own good. Top notch coolness here. Liked him a lot, and the stuff he gets into.
"Where the Old Yeller Fern Grows"
Julian Dennison ("Deadpool 2") and Sam Neill ("Jurassic Park") give an amazing performance as grumpy unlikeable pair of guys purposely lost in the wilderness.
For an "foster kid" trope, this movie really has it all. I don't appreciate it's attempt to mimic "Up!" and that did sour my opinion a bit. It starts, then waxes and wanes between drama and comedy.
You'll laugh, you'll cry, there is family love, romantic love, plenty of action, and more laughs.
Ridculously Over-hyped Borefest
After reading the reviews I felt I was on to a winner with this film. Sadly I was mistaken. It starts off okay but loses its way pretty quick. There is so much of it that just isn't as funny and as endearing as it thinks it is. There were no laugh out loud moments and some of the acting was atrocious. Yet some of the reviews would make you think it was a masterpiece. People can be echo chambers though, sadly.
Overrated!
It's okay but not what I expected! Very odd and confusing. Not what I expected. The kid was low key a jerk and deserved nothing. It was too over the top, as if this manhunt was really a big deal. It didn't sit well with anyone in my family.
Too Long
It's pretty good for a while but after a certain point it gets boring. Maybe it's too long.
Lighthearted family comedy
Starts off strong with the potential to be a brilliant movie but loses momentum midway and spirals downhill into a mediocre light hearted comedy. One to watch with the kids!
The funniest Comedy movie ever made!
I'm a big fan of Taika Waititi, especially Thor: Ragnarok and Jojo Rabbit, but it's not just those that made me like him. It was Hunt for the Wilderpeople that started my interest in Taika Waititi, as well as Thor: Ragnarok before Jojo Rabbit. Those are the three movies I've seen by him so far. He's definitely the funniest guy from New Zealand and one of my favorite filmmakers. Now, Hunt for the Wilderpeople, I would say, is probably the funniest movie I've ever watched, especially if it's from New Zealand, excluding any superhero comedy movies like Guardians of the Galaxy, Ant-Man, and Thor: Ragnarok. Taika had a short cameo in the movie, which was quite hilarious. The directing from Taika Waititi is very stylish and full of wacky fun. The performances of Julian Dennison as Ricky Baker and Sam Neill as Hector Faulkner were very impressive, as well as their chemistry and their adventure throughout the movie is entertaining. The humor throughout the movie is also wickedly funny and quirky at the same time, which will leave you laughing out loud and crack yourself up.. You could almost quote some of the lines. It also doesn't just have comedy, it also has some charm and adventure that you can enjoy, as well as some fast pacing. With a charming cast and filmmaker, as well as wacky fun humor, Hunt for the Wilderpeople, I think, is probably the funniest movie I've ever watched and also my favorite movie by Taika Waititi. 9.5/10.
A quirky indie gem.
A quirky, quaint and genuinely touching tale of two lost souls finding a purpose through each other. It's far from an original concept but Waititi stamps proceedings with his trademark Kiwi humour so that Wilderpeople never feels stale. Young Dennison is remarkable, with a cutting deadpan delivery that rivals Rebel Wilson. Sam Neill is the grouchy heart, delivering one of his finest performances. Add dozens of cracking one liners and some truly spectacular New Zealand scenery and you've got a sweet indie gem.
Kiwi director Taika Waititi can be something of an acquired taste; so far I've loved one of his films (THOR: RAGNAROK) but pretty much hated another (WHAT WE DO IN THE SHADOWS). Thankfully HUNT FOR THE WILDERPEOPLE is far more like the former than the latter; it's a fun adventure-style movie that boasts an effectively small scale and some wonderfully endearing characters who bring the story to life very well, particularly Julian Dennison who gives a stand-out turn as the child lead. Sam Neill excels as the grizzled straight man while the jokes come thick and fast and a high proportion of them hit home. What's not to love?
I loved this movie from beginning to end. Super cute story about friendship and family.
generally interesting but tonally inconsistent
This film follows an unfortunate orphan boy's adventures with a cantankerous adopted dad. It's a rather odd movie, in that the boy and the father and mother figures feel comic but quite real whereas the rest of the characters are broad and cartoonish. I found this a very distracting approach that prevented the movie from fully committing to either being a touching comedy drama or a wild burlesque.
The cast is good and there are a number of good scenes, but the movie isn't nearly as effective as either of director Taia Waititi's other boy-based movies, Boy, and Jojo Rabbit.
It's not a bad movie, but I wouldn't recommend going out of your way to watch it.
Adventures of two eccentric people in the wilderness
Taika Waititi tells a rather interesting story about how two different people can learn from each other, from each other. While Hector, played by Sam Neil, teaches the young boy about wildlife, the guy teaches lessons about today's world and pop culture. This film is less funny for Waititi, it is more about life, about relationships with each other. Ricky's figure just craves one family for nothing else. You'll find that, too, but the guardianship gets in and they want to take you back to the correctional facility. The relationship between the two characters is well structured, neither suppressing the other. The film's humor is more based on figuring out the contrasts between the two characters, so we can follow the two unfortunate frantic chases along with crying and laughing.The film is about responsibility for each other and ourselves, trust, exclusion from society.
An underrated masterpiece
I find it very hard to fault this movie. It's practically perfect. The new Zealand landscape is absolutely gorgeous and the characters are funny, heartwarming and generally well written. The comedy is great and I laughed out loud a lot of times. The movie also has some sad scenes which hit every single time and isn't ruined by the quirkyness of the movie. The cinematography and editing is so amazing and is something I've never seen in any other movie. The soundtrack is awesome and memorizing. Overall please watch this movie as it is great.
Hidden gem!
A beautiful yet very funny film with a serious theme and message at its core. Sam Neill is a revelation
Incredible comedy drama
Hunt for the Wilderpeople is an incredible comedy drama that's emotional, heartwarming and funny. Sam Neill and Julian Dennison are both incredible with fantastic chemistry. Rhys Darby, Rima Te Wiata and Rachel House are all great. It's expertly paced and consistently very funny throughout. Taika Waititi's direction is incredible and it's beautifully filmed. Both the soundtrack and the music by Lukasz Buda, Samuel Scott and Conrad Wedde are amazing.
A sweet story about two misfits
I watched Hunt for the Wilderpeople wanted to watch something heart-lighted comedy, what I got was a heartwarming story about two outsiders becoming a makeshift family. It was a sweet film as Sam Neill and Julian Dennison end up fending for themselves in the New Zealand bush after a series of misunderstandings. Writer/director Taika Waititi lets out his inner Wes Anderson as the film mixes a touching story of two outsiders finding each other and lots of wacky antics, especially in the final act. It was just a delightful little watch.
Fun, but too unreal.
This is a weird movie, it's funny and entertaining. Just the whole concept is so unrealistic, it's a very cartoonish movie.
Perfection
The movie shows the beauty of happiness and despair. Ricky and Hector have both gone troubling encounters but their fusion shows the image beauty of survival. Truly Wilderpeople.
Another great film from Taika
I just love Taika's movies, they are full of fun adventures with great humor and quirky style like Wes Anderon's. Hunt for the Wilderpeople is all that with Sam Neill as grumpy old man from Up, I mean what else do you need?
An uplifting story about the essence of freedom
I forget the reason why we missed this when it first came out, but managed to see it on-line now, and we are so glad we did. The central characters of Hec and Ricky are so well drawn, and it was an amazing performance for a kid. Sam Neill was of course the consummate professional. Also, the actor portraying Paula (No child left behind!) was so convincing that she landed the part of a sadistic guard at an Australian refugee camp in 'Stateless'. Say no more! It's hard not to love New Zealand, and this was a great ride though its more than ample wilderness. I'd have given it 10 stars, but felt the ending tapered off and left me wondering what happened there.
Great Comedy Adventure
Taika Waititi keeps cranking out these great little comedy films. This one felt a little bit different to me than his previous films EAGLE VS SHARK and BOY. I think that was because it was based on a novel.
It's different in a good way, though. It's a great story and full of unpredictable twists and turns. The two main actors in this are great together. Recommend.
Sweet and genuine, effortlessly funny and smoothly charming
A difficult foster child finally finds his place on a remote New Zealand farm, runs into some tough luck and goes on the lam with a stern, stoic older man who makes no attempt to disguise his contempt for the boy. Despite what sounds like a very serious, dreary premise, there's a lot of innocent joy, moments of pure brightness and continuous good humor in Hunt for the Wilderpeople. While they evade pursuit in the Kiwi wilds, Ricky (the adoptee in question) stands up for himself and earns a place in the old man's heart, plus a dash of respect, without losing any of the magnetic, irreverent qualities that make him so much fun to watch. Youthful Julian Dennison is a great fit for the part, playing the hard-edged wannabe thug with a straight face while smoothly indulging the sillier ticks and quirks that make it clear he's still young at heart. Sam Neill, nearly unrecognizable beneath a thick white beard and thicker local accent, makes a fine addition as his gruff, prickly counterpart; a bitter, lonesome man who still harbors the spark of warmth beneath several prohibitive outer layers. Sweet and genuine, effortlessly funny and smoothly charming, it's partly Napoleon Dynamite, partly Wes Anderson and partly its own thing entirely.
Charming and Fun from Taika Waititi
After seeing Thor and Jojo Rabbit, I wanted to experience more of Taika's work which led me to watching his 2016 effort Hunt for the Wilderpeople, set in the director's homeland of New Zealand. The film features a typical strong performance from Sam Neill, but the young lead Julian Dennison is also fantastic. Waititi has a knack for finding true gems for child actors and knows how to get standout performances from them. This film is full of the humor and charm you'd expect from Waititi but also delves deeper into the human issues faced by youth growing up in out of home care. It is a touching feel good story without being over the top cheesy and beautifully filmed in remote locations of the New Zealand wilderness. Standout film, highly recommended.
Very disappointing movie
After the positive reviews from both normal movie fans and critics I thought I would give this movie a shot. The movie begins strongly but falls off very fast. It's not funny, the acting in some scenes is bad and the score feels out of place. In many instances the movie tries to be funny by being over the top but it just does not work. It's also really bad at showing how much time has elapsed. At various points in the movie the characters have to say how much time has passed between scenes because it's not illustrated visually. There are some moments that are almost funny and some moments that are a bit emotional but these moments are too few and far between to make me like this movie. All in all it's a waste of time.
1Excellent film.
A very nicely done film, I love this and so do my children.
Wonderful, warm, funny
This is has been better reviewed here than I could hope to do. I'll leave the 10-star reviews to others. I loved it and will watch it again. I'm posting because I do believe the people who gave it a low or very low rating are "not all there" or have some agenda, maybe to pull down the rating. There can be no other explanation. The low reviews are simply not worth the time it takes to read them. Bonus - fabulous sound track.
Lovely
This is such a gentle and sensitive film, I loved it. It is lighthearted and funny but touches on bigger and more serious themes as well, without becoming tacky or overly dramatic. Great attention to detail.
"Faulker is cauc-asian." Well they got that wrong, because you're obviously white.
A great movie!
Taika Waititi's "Hunt for the Wilderpeople" is a adventure comedy drama movie inspired by Barry's Crump "Wild pork and Watercress".The movie can make you cry,can make you laugh and can make you think and show the situation in New Zealand.The movie is set in the "bushes" in modern New Zealand.The film was made to show how the system failed for the maorians and other people.The system has left behind them and never provided them everything that was available in for others in developing cities and towns.This movie can perfectly explain what is going on in New Zealand.
There is no easter egg up here
The movies main character Ricky Baker which is a 12 year old orphan with a character based on hip-hop culture and "street life" taken from movies,stories and games.Ricky was considered as a thief,vandal and someone that makes trouble by the Child welfare. The movie begins with Ricky arriving to his new foster house which is a little huntsman house located in dense bushes in New Zealand.Bella(Rima Te Wiata) and Hec(Sam Neill) are his new "foster parents".At first it was hard for ricky to feel like it was his "home" and to adapt to the situation. After some time Ricky felt more at home and had better relations between Bella and Hec,a tragic and unexpected event got in the way.The event led to Paula Faulkner(Rachel House) from the Child welfare take Ricky back to Juvenile or to look for a new foster home.Ricky is really mad and disagrees to go back.So what Ricky does is he escapes with his stuff to the bushes alone.After some hours Ricky wanders and gets "lost".Because Hector new Ricky is not going to do well alone in the wild forests,he went for him.They finally met up.They all decide that they have nothing to lose so the escape and hide in the bushes starts the whole series of the adventures of Ricky and Hec.After some time in the bushes it turns out that Ricky does really well in difficult conditions.Between Ricky and Hec a "male friendship" is born.
It's a film which we cannot miss out on.It made on me a very big impression.The movie looks phenomenal and beautiful and the New Zealand nature is stunning. The movie for me is a story of a hard friendship between rough Hector and eccentric Ricky,but there is one thing that unites them-it's the need of acceptance and being loved as they are both orphans. There is only one thing that makes this movie unique is the absurd sense of humor. The movie is funny,intelligent and unique.Filing the whole and something i admired in this movie is the music which perfectly gives the movie the NZ theme.For me it makes a big difference. If you haven't watch this amazing movie, i strongly recommend!!!
I remember the trailer saying it had a ten on rotten tomatoes
First of all rotten tomatoes ruins movies potentials when it gives them ratings it doesn't deserve. But this was actually a ten movie just really great heartwarming and hilarious.
Very entertaining
Hilarious, fascinating, heart-warming, touching and action packed, Hunt for the Wilderpeople is a New Zealand adventure comedy-drama from 2016. Movie directed, produced and written by Taika Waititi. The movie was based on a book by Barry Crump - Wild pork and watercress. This film is about a thirteen year old boy named Ricky Baker (Julian Dennison), who's life was, changing from one foster family too another. He's biggest dream was to become a gangster in the future. At the beginning of this feature we see a beautiful view of New Zealand and later Ricky who is delivered to his new foster family, an old couple, Bella (Rima Te Wiata) and Hector (Sam Neill). Bella is a very caring and energetic person. She is giving a lot of attention to Ricky and surrounds him with love. They connect quickly and she wins his trust. Hector on the other hand was a grumpy person and preferred his own company. When Ricky finally has a normal life with a loving family, something happens that forces Ricky to run away and when Hector finds him, they begin their journey full of adventures, mostly running away from the police and hiding from the world. The movie is set in a beautiful country, New Zealand. I was so happy that Taika Waititi decided to show the spectacular nature of New Zealand. During the movie when we have short breaks from the action and even during the most important parts, we can observe how beautiful is this island so far away from me in Poland.
The music soundtrack is perfect for this movie. Some of the songs are so well chosen, that the words kind off match with the scene. The funniest part was Ricky's birthday song, which was very surprising, original and comical.
The characters are very well created, they seemed real, and because of that every sad scene was even more sad and I felt like I was affected by that even too. The actors did a wonderful job they created such realistic characters and It didn't feel fake like I said earlier I felt that there were real people and not acting. Sam Neill is a popular actor and did a good job but Julian Dennison despite not having such a big acting experience, he did a marvellous job and in my opinion his acting was as good as a professional adult actor.
Hunt of the wilderpeople is a movie directed by Taika Watiti. The movie is based on a novel called Wild Pork and Watercress which was written by Barry Crump.Hunt of the wilder people was released on on march 13 2016 and the movie was filmed in New Zeland. The main themes we can see in the movie are: comedy,adventure and a little bit of drama.
In my opinion the movie is really great! I really enjoyed watching it. Hunt of the wilderpeople is a good movie to watch with friends or family. The only thing which could have been better was filming of it,I think that if the movie was shot with multiple cameras it would be better.Althoug the movie was funny and had a lot of jokes but it's not the funniest movie you can watch ,because it had also some sad and dramatic scenes.I personaly rate this movie a 8.5/10. ☺
2Great film
Hunt for the Wilderpeople is a movie, that was directed by Taika Waititi. It is based on a novel called Wild Pork and the Watercress written by Berry Crump. The film was set in different locations, including the Central Plateau and the Waitakere Ranges in New Zealand. The adaptation features Julian Dennison, Sam Neill and Rachel House. The soundtrack in the movie is an Original Motion Picture Soundtrack by Moniker, that was written especially for Hunt for the Wilderpeople. The adventure comedy-drama focuses on many relationship based themes and issues.
The tale centers on a boy called Ricky Baker (Julian Dennison) who is a trouble maker, and is considered a "real bad egg". Because of that, as well as his past, he struggles to find a stable home. That is until he meets his foster parents: Bella (Rima Te Wiata) and Hector (Sam Neill). It's hard for him to adapt to his new home at first, despite Bella's efforts. Unfortunately, after he starts settling in, he is forced to go on an adventure with Hector because of a difficult set of circumstances. They need to run away from the authorities and Paula (Rachel House), hunt in order to get food and search for shelter. The plot is fascinating, interesting and overall well-made. Some parts of the movie are touching, some are funny and some are even heart-warming: for example the way that Hector changed from being cold hearted and barely showing any emotion to becoming a likable man. The actors are talented, therefore the characters are played very well. They are convincing, lively and unique in their own way. The director did a very good job.
In conclusion Hunt for the Wilderpeople is light and funny, but has its moments of touching drama and exciting action. It is likeable, charming and just plain fun. I would recommend this coming of age film to people of all ages. It is definitely worth watching. However, it does include a bit of violence. There are scenes where animals are being hunted for and killed, which might not be best for sensitive viewers.
Majestical
A confession. I've never seen Hunt for the Wilderpeople. This feels like a glaring failure on my behalf and it's proved to be the case... it's wonderful! Ricky is a young, bored, orphan boy, who finds himself thrust out of the city's welfare system and into the rural home of Bella & Hector. Things don't go quite according to plan though and Ricky finds himself out in the bush with Hector, as both insular characters begin to find out things about themselves and one another. It's darkly funny, but tongue and cheek comical too. Sam Neil is brilliant as Hector, himself an outcast, not comfortable with society and certainly not at ease with 13 year old hip hop loving Ricky. Julian Dennison as Ricky though is a revelation, a bundle of joy perfectly complementing Neil's weather beaten world view. A series of both heartbreaking and innocent incidents sees them on the run from the ridiculously farcical welfare authorities, resulting in a mix of tenderness and satirical hilarity, wrapped up in an 80s style buddy picture, complete with delightful synth heavy score. As if all that weren't enough, Rhys Derby's cameo is nothing short of perfection... or should that be 'Majestical'.
Not a funny movie
The first 15 minutes were pretty funny... the rest of the film not so much. Taiki should stay in his lane on making comedy's - not heartwarming stories. Long, drawn out movie.
Thank you Taika
From the same brilliant mind that also brought us What We Do in the Shadows, this is a film that lives up to the comedy-drama genre to its fullest.
The film may be based on a book but that does not take out the brilliance of the script itself. The dialogues in this film are memorable, the jokes are hilarious with universal appeal strengthening the laughs and they never once overstay their welcome. The performances in this film are brilliant, with Julian Dennison straight up breaking the mold of 'child actors are terrible' by spearheading this hilarious film with full angst, childhood emotional trauma and heartwarming wholesomeness. All this is only complimented by Sam Neil's brilliant emotional mimicry that even with little dialogue, formed a heavy brunt of the film's emotional weight.
The plot itself follows an oddball story that spirals into the realms of media madness. All throughout the well-played-out story, we are spoiled with a wealth of brilliant shots of beautiful settings and some memorably clever camera play at work. Aside from the two leads, the film is also littered with quirky side characters that, although not as well fleshed-out as the leads, still leave a hell of an impression with their performances derived from such an amazing script.
Love to see I finally enjoy, especially with so many garbage coming out, I mean overwhelming amount of bad films. I caught this because of the director's latest film, Jojo Rabbit, which was great. This was not as good as JoJo, but nevertheless well worth seeing.
I just love the blend of humor and drama approached with realism, not over the top and bad acting, but a realistic approach despite some of the dialogue and situations being someone ridiculous (in a good way).
Most directors would tend to make actors force the humor and literally wink into the camera for laughs, but not Taika Waititi, and thank God for that.
Go see it for the adventure ride and laugh out loud moments.
Brilliant feel good movie
What a wonderful feel good movie this is. Engaging characters, good storytelling and truly a marvelous movie. If you like New Zealand landscapes this is your cup of tea!
Ok I Loved this Film but the only reason why I am giving it an 8 out of 10 is because of the accused his the man of "SEXUAL ASSAULT" He never touched the Boy. I take that stuff very seriously and DO NOT EVEN LYE OR JOKE ABOUT IT. But it is a fantastic Movie. Oh and the Music, Songs in this Movie was PERFECT. I loved the album in this film it was great. That Nutball dressed as a tree bush was also very funny and terrific. That Women Officer in that film hunting down the young boy. She was also funny, nuts, right down to the law, Loved how she Bossed everyone around she was a fantastic woman in charge. (DO AS I SAY) I loved that part standing in front of a MAN OFFICER. Yelling at him to get real POLICE MEN to the Job. He said I am a Policeman. Then she says ya a real one that carries a "GUN" He just looks at her and puts his head down and walks away Lol. That was funny why because of you suck being an Officer "DUMMY" SHE KNEW HOW TO EXPRESS HERSELF.
Warm hearted movies with a lot of comedy.
I really enjoyed this movie , not only it had some warm hearted moments but it was funny, a lot of moments in the movie were funny. I recommended this movie for any age.
Brilliant film
The film story touched the deepest point of my heart! The unique mixture of comedy and drama Scenes gives me goosebumps. Literally i cried & cracked up at the same time.
To be honest all stories that talking about Adoption are pretty dark or not realistic at all. But this story showing us how the adoption life could be, with a little bit of fun.
Nothing negative to say about wilder people!
This movie really has it all! I really loved this movie, the relationship between uncle and the kid (forgot his name) was really good to watch grow! It pulla on the heart strings. In a good way. Its has lots of funny moments keeps you glued to the screen!
A quirky comedy with some great characters
I had heard good things about 'Hunt for the Wilderpeople' and I have to say that the hype is definitely justified.
This is a quirky film and far from your typical comedy, but I thought it was very funny throughout and a highly entertaining film. I tend to enjoy wacky offbeat comedies and when it comes to plot, the weirder the better for me, so 'Hunt for the Wilderpeople' was right up my street.
The best thing about this film though has to be the characters. They are deliberately over-the-top/exaggerated based on real-world stereotypes, such as the stroppy kid, incompetent police and the unsympathetic social worker, who was my personal favourite.
Entertaining, fun, well-written and well-acted throughout. A great comedy movie all round, highly recommeded.
Majestical movie with the Knack!
This film captured me from the very start and kept me smiling to the very end. So much warmth. So many giggles. Likeable characters, and some unlikeable ones too, all portrayed to perfection. Sam Neil is great as the old Grumble, and the wee boy is an absolute star. And who better to play mad Sam the Bushman than Rhys Darby! That guy is comedy genius. The script is down to earth with a funny and heartwarming dialogue. The pair grow and develop - the story moves ahead without ever running wild. And it all happens to the backdrop of a breathtaking NZ scenery (and they even managed to fit in a nod to LOTR, well played). This is 10 chapters of goodness. Grand storytelling on a humble scale. Watch this film!!!
Amazing Film!
Hunt for the Wilderpeople (2016) is an epic adventure written and directed by Taika Waititi, a New Zealand director probably most recognized by his works What We Do in the Shadows (2014) and Thor: Ragnarok (2017). This film is based on the book Wild Pork and Watercress, written by Barry Crump, and stars Sam Neill (Jurassic Park, 1993, Escape Plan, 2013), Julian Dennison (Deadpool 2, 2018), and Rachel House (Moana, 2016). Hunt for the Wilderpeople alternates between obvious and subtle references to pop culture while updating what it means to be an "epic adventure" in today's film industry. The film's protagonist is teenage boy who has bounced from foster home to foster home until he reaches his last stop before being sent to a juvenile center. His world is uprooted, and he finds himself in the middle of a nationwide manhunt that leads to some personal growth, heartwarming moments, and interesting characters. This film was an emotional rollercoaster from start to finish. Waititi's penchant for natural, comedic dialogue allows you to not only relate to the main characters within the first fifteen minutes, but it allows you to love them as well. The music had a folksy feel to it and the cinematic direction and editing of certain scenes gave me that "pay attention to this because you will see it later" feeling and I was not let down. Hunt for the Wilderpeople does an amazing job referencing pop culture as soon as it starts. The film's main character, Ricky Baker (Dennison), steps out of the back of a police car, dressed in flashy, urban-esque clothing. Not only is his attire inspired by a certain sect of Black American culture, the back of his jacket has the quote, "All Eyes On Me," a reference to rap icon Tupac Shakur's album All Eyez on Me. What's interesting about Waititi's directorial and musical choice to introduce Ricky Baker is that we get an up-close look at the words on the back of Ricky's jacket accompanied by a foreboding musical score that gives a bit of foreshadowing through the character's introduction before we even see his face. Even Ricky's past antics (shown in flashbacks as his new foster parent is briefed on his history), hopes, and dreams are heavily influenced by urban culture and music. During a point where Ricky states his desire to get back to the city, he states his plan to get "some new gears, become a drug dealer, a rapper, and die in a drive-by." This is a huge perception of rap culture in America that has spread worldwide where people of other countries often have the common misconception that that lifestyle is what all rappers live. Throughout the months that pass in the movie, the film shows Ricky and Hector (Neill), go from being at each other's throats to almost inseparable. The best part about the way we learn how much time has passed is that it's through dialogue. Now, one may argue that announcing the passage of time could come off as forced or contrived, but Waititi blends it into the conversation in such a way that is not only natural, but with a sort of dash of exposition to catch us up after we've enjoyed several minutes of the duo's adventures and bickering. It's because of these things that Hunt for the Wilderpeople is an epic adventure updating the definition of what it means for a film to be an "epic adventure." We no longer live in a time where we have to tell stories of old like 300 or Troy or Gladiator because the Greek are not the only people who spent months or years on an adventure. We live in a day and age where epic adventures are happening all around us and Waititi does a great job capturing the one between Ricky Baker and Hector Faulkner. I highly recommend this movie to anyone looking to have a great laugh (and maybe even a cray) with amazing characters with references to pop culture that almost all of us will understand.
Heartfelt, Emotional, Beautiful, Hilarious. It's Waititi's best movie yet
Overall a great film with great kiwi humor, showcases the natural beauty of New Zealand and is overall a very well directed movie with great characters and a humorous story with great characters. The introduction of Julian Dennison as Ricky Backer was great and brought so much genuine talent, humor and personality to the character of Ricky Baker. Sam Neil as Uncle Hec was great too and also had a great performance in the film, It's been a while since I've seen him and it was great just to see him back on the screen again.
Every character in the film is unique and entertaining including Waititi himself who appears in the movie. Taika himself acheives a great blend of comedy against emotion, sadness and loss and acheives a sense of magic and wonder through his showcase of the native bushland.
It's an incredible Kiwi film, Go see it
Perfect movie
Great story, great acting by the whole cast, perfect gem.
Very nice family movie
Funny, touching, adventure movie for kids and parents. With great New Zealand English accent and pictures.
Great, well-made and well-put-together movie. this is a heart-warming story, which is normally not my thing, but it really worked in this movie. it never got too sappy, and it always hit the right emotions. beautifully shot, very "majestical." and cleverly funny throughout. has a very original and different feel to it. very enjoyable experience (1 viewing)
Charming but a bit too long
Great movie!!!
Such a cute story. Stumbled upon this at the library. So glad I did.
Terrific not a minute wasted
Ok its believability is a bit of a stretch but this was one of the best movies I have seen in ages. A gem in the dungheap of modern cinema.
Incredibly funny
A great movie with original comedy lines. Laughed a good couple of times with my family.
A beautiful masterpiece
An epic must see!!! This is a very funny and sensitive film
Suprise hitter
What a sleeper hit, so many quotable lines, well acted and more people should know about this winner
How many synonyms are there for annoying?Painful to endure, with an utterly irritating score, formulaic plot, devoid of real humor, the best thing I can say is that it is quirky. This was one of the worst movies I've ever seen. Where do these great reviews come from? Ending was a bizarre variation on Thelma and Louise.
Bleech. Yuck. And so on...
A really revitalizing movie that doesn't feel over emotional or manipulative.
Charming little comedic adventure that applies a feather touch to its sentimentality as a curmudgeon and a racially different youth who adores hip hip culture fight to evade the authorities.
Beautifully shot against New Zealand's green wilderness, I will now have fixed feeling in my mind how it is different to Australia. The whimsical touch, swell music direct, often fascination visualization (in one case the camera swivels around to show their progress when another direct might have montaged it; they obviously used doubles but it's still cool).
I never know what to say about acting beyond is was good or bad but here it's all very good all round.
Hilarious 
This is hilarious, it's so funny and the humor is so on point, the story is easy to follow and makes you curious and interested at all times, it's funny, emotional and action packed, this is one of my favorite movies of all times, so many funny and great characters.
Funny, big-hearted and totally endearing
A quirky, big-hearted, eccentric and somewhat surreal New Zealand film which chronicles an odd couple on the run. The actors are all engaging and this is a very original, funny, heartwarming tale. The film's unaffected natural performers are at the heart of what makes this so much fun and so endering.
I don't get it...
Why has this movie such a high rating? I saw it with my family and no one really liked it. First of all, most of the jokes wasn't funny at all. The boy's acting, as well as the policewoman was pretty poor and you actually didn't like the boy at all. His personality and the way he acted wasn't very likeable. Also, the plot was quite meaningless, it was just lame and well... boring.
Some things though were quite funny and the New Zeeland landscape was beautiful, that's why I gave it a 4/10.
Adore this movie
Beautiful. Human, touching, authentic, original, funny, sweet and a great chemistry between the actors. Two of them basically carry the whole movie effortlessly, without boredom or insincerity. I've seen it four times and love watching it with others who haven't seen it. In the current hyped, tent pole movie genre, this is a breath of fresh air.
Leaves More Than a Trace of Joy/Hope/Redemption/etc...
In a weird way, this feels to me how a Disney film _should_ feel. When the treacle wells up, you cut it (gut it?) with a slice of tragedy, and then moments later, or perhaps within the same scene, you mingle in some humor.
Film caught me a bit by surprise, even though I strictly rented it as part of a Taika trifecta. I only wish I had my whole family watch it with me, but they had spent their silver screen bullets on Naked Gun earlier.
Some moments might be intense for kids (or adults). I sort of wanted "skux life" to be something entirely made up but in a way, that being alreedy part of NZ argot is even better.
A perspective that emphasizes the kindness of weirdos and the harmless stupidity of any "villains" is welcome in my world.
Awesome
Really good movie. Lots of laughs loves and loss. Really proud of this movie
The Peak of Waititi's Comedy
A crazy fun comedy. It is a bit slow early on, but it picks up pretty quickly and remains fun the rest of the way. The last couple chapters of the film have the best jokes as well as some strong emotional moments to round out this excellent film from Taika Waititi.
I don't know why this movie have so high rate.
It's not a bad movie, but definitely it's not a kick ass movie. Good acting, that's all there is nothing to surprise me. Even if i watch this movie before 15years my rate gonna be a maximum 7
Feel good movie, with New Zealand humour.
Most of the actors hit their mark in this feel good movie but there were a few times the acting felt forced. My favorite character in this movie by far was "Paula" played by Rachel House and funnily enough, one of my least favorite in the movie was "Ricky Baker" one of the main characters. Well worth a watch, if you're in the mood to sit back and relax without using your brain too much. I've watched it 3 times and will no doubt watch it again.
Sweet and Genuine, Effortlessly Funny and Smoothly Charming
A difficult foster child finally finds his place on a remote New Zealand farm, runs into some tough luck and goes on the lam with a stern, stoic older man who makes no attempt to disguise his contempt for the boy. Despite what sounds like a very serious, dreary premise, there's a lot of innocent joy, moments of pure brightness and continuous good humor in Hunt for the Wilderpeople.
While they evade pursuit in the Kiwi wilds, Ricky (the adoptee in question) stands up for himself and earns a place in the old man's heart, plus a dash of respect, without losing any of the magnetic, irreverent qualities that make him so much fun to watch. Youthful Julian Dennison is a great fit for the part, playing the hard-edged wannabe thug with a straight face while smoothly indulging the sillier ticks and quirks that make it clear he's still young at heart. Sam Neill, nearly unrecognizable beneath a thick white beard and thicker local accent, makes a fine addition as his gruff, prickly counterpart; a bitter, lonesome man who still harbors the spark of warmth beneath several prohibitive outer layers.
Sweet and genuine, effortlessly funny and smoothly charming, it's partly Napoleon Dynamite, partly Wes Anderson and partly its own thing entirely.
Very quirky and entertaining story of a man and a boy on the run in New Zealand.
I watched this at home on DVD from my public library. It is a New Zealand production and is filmed almost entirely in the hills and forests.
It is about a boy, 12 turning 13, who never knew his dad and was discarded by his mom when he was very young. The role is played by chubby Julian Dennison as Ricky. Two things resulted, he was raised in foster homes and he developed mischievous habits that got him into trouble, things like graffiti on public walls or knocking over mailboxes. So as this movie starts he is being placed in one more foster home, maybe this will be his very last chance.
Irish New Zealander Sam Neill is 65-yr-old Hec, he and his wife live secluded on a clearing in the forest. Hec is reluctant, his wife is enthusiastic, but she unfortunately passes away without fanfare and Ricky is sent a letter from the agency, they will come and get him and put him into a different foster home.
But Ricky likes where he is, Hec has gotten somewhat attached to him, so both of them end up in the outback, eluding authorities, the stay prolonged by Hec's ankle injury. That is most of the movie, the two become "Wilderpeople".
It is a funny and heartwarming story, both actors are in good form. I enjoyed it.
Great Characters
I really loved it
A very interesting mix, funny and heartwarming history.
Perfection!
One of my favourite all time movies.I've watched it numerous times and still laugh at it like its my first time watching...can't recommend enough.
Wonderful movie!
Great humour and beautiful scenery! The kid is funny and Sam neill is doing a great job as uncle hector.
Hunt for the Wilderpeople
Having loved the only previous movie I saw directed by Taika Waititi, ''What we do in the shadows'', I decided to give this one a go after having it in my watchlist for what seems like forever, and I was not disappointed. The first thing I noticed while watching Hunt for the Wilderpeople, was that I couldn't fit it into any of the usual genres, and I couldn't figure out if I was supposed to laugh my guts out or to cry like a child for the duration of the movie. In the end it ended up being a bit of both, an emotional roller-coaster, full of incredibly funny bits, such as the cameo of the director Waititi in the role of an eccentric priest, as well as really sad moments, when the comedy of the characters' actions hits a great dose of uncompromising reality, and the two things happening very close to each other somehow accentuates both. Speaking of the characters, the acting is superb, and the casting seemed perfect, as everyone did an amazing job at selling their part and making the viewer feel close to them. One of Bewilder(people)ing and Heartwarming
This movie is a kooky blend of New Zealand sass and off-kilter heartwarming familial bonding. When troubled youth Ricky is sent to a farm in the Bush as his last option before Juvenile Detention, he comes to live with curmudgeon Hec and his kindly wife, Bella. When Bella dies, Ricky flees into the wild lands and is pursued, and eventually bonds with Hec, as they survive the perils of the wilderness, and of a life on the run from the law. In a fantastically oddball coming of age tale, director Taika Waititi presents a unique point of view on the challenges of growing up as a child in the welfare system in NZ. As the antisocial and set in his ways Hec opens his heart, and gangster-wannabee Ricky learns to put aside appearances and work with integrity, the movie presents fulfilling character progression alongside gorgeous natural scenery. Lachlan Milne was in charge of Cinematography and created a visually delicious film in line with his best known stunning work: Stranger Things. I truly felt the tough love form between the pair and was emotionally satisfied by this three-course meal of a film.
Full of Heart, Full of Comedy
carlarsmendes11 October 2018
I did not see this movie coming. At all. The trailer did not spoil anything for once, and to be honest I had no idea what I was going in for - And I recommend you do the same. Don't read too many reviews, or catch any spoilers. Just go for it and let it move you. I didn't expect to laugh so hard I was grabbing my stomach, or almost starting to cry the next moment. Movies are all about this: Feeling. Bad, good, mixed feelings. And this movie definitely hit them all at one time or another. Sam Neill is amazing and so is the kid. Thank you for this. It was a real treat!
4 out of 5 found this helpful. Was this review helpful? Sign in to vote.
Permalink
 8/10
Quirky, funny and slightly absurdist but surprisingly emotionally resonant, too.
While 'The Hunt For The Wilderpeople (2016)' is suitably quirky, slightly absurdist and extremely funny (refreshingly so), it only packs as much punch as it does because it is surprisingly emotionally resonant. Its endearing and relatively realistic central relationship thankfully always comes first. The film is just an entertaining time throughout, an eclectic amalgamation of farcical comedy and character growth, and it's an incredibly unique experience that never takes the easy or expected route, in terms of neither its plot nor its laughs. This makes every weird, oddly cohesive moment all the sweeter, especially when it collates into an end result as fantastic as it is. 8/10
hat a little masterpiece
Beautifully written with some truly hilarious lines.
A relationship between the two leads that really warms you.
The social worker character is brilliant, and the discussion about who wa The Terminator has me giggling away.
My 72 yr old mother and 13 year old son both thought it was a gem as well.
Just a gorgeous hidden gem of a movie. One of my favourite films of all time. Definitely top 10.
Majestical
Great film from start to finish. Superb acting. All set in the majestical landscape of New Zealand.
Everyone should watch this.
Forgettable
Hilarious and charming
I expected this movie to be some kind of drama og surval movie, but instead it made me laugh again and again. Brilliant, just brilliant.
meh...
So I wanted to review this because it was a hard one to review. I watched it and there were a handful of really funny moments and yet it was lacking in emotion so much that it had so much potential yet fell so short.
Each character as hard as I tried to feel some fort of connection to them I simply couldn't. It's the sort of movie that I continued watching waiting to see what would happen next. Lovely scenery about sums it. The acting was as the script was meant to be I'm guessing...
I don't know what the secret ingredient that it was missing but whatever it is really caused this one to flop when it shouldn't have.
Fun and different!
I knew nothing about this movie, other than the director going in, and I guess I'm watching his movies out of order, but he's quite good and funny! This movie doesn't have a lot of story, but the characters and dialogue are funny. It's got heart and some really silly moments as well. A great role for Sam Neil amongst a lot of pretty good newcomers, plus the beauty of New Zealand.
Purely and utterly delightful!
I wanted to explore the rest of Taika Waititi's filmography after loving everything he did on Thor: Ragnarok and decided to watch this one with my mom. (**THOR: RAGNAROK SPOILER**: Sam Neill who plays Hector, actually has a cameo in a play about Loki and portrays the actor who play's Odin) This film was so quirky with the concept of Ricky Baker, a troubled teen who is in the New Zealand foster care system sent to live with couple Bella and Hector, who live in the vast New Zealand bush. Ricky Baker had never felt comfortable in his previous foster homes, and warms up to Bella and Hector, whom he dubs his "Aunt" and "Uncle." Bella treats him with such love and kindness and even gifts him with a dog for his birthday that he names Tupac after the rapper of the same name. Suddenly as Ricky begins to truly enjoy living with Bella and Hector, Bella passes away. Taika Waititi makes a very memorable and hilarious cameo as a priest at Bella's funeral. Ricky is informed that social services will be coming to pick him up and take him to a new foster care home, since it was Bella's idea to take Ricky in and not Hector's. Knowing this, Ricky decides to run away into the bush with Tupac and fakes his own death. This is discovered by the scene stealing Rachel House as Paula Hall, Ricky's social worker and she and the police, as well as Hector make their own searches for Ricky. Ricky and Hector end up finding each other and sticking together for several months on the run from Paula and the police. Several run-ins with zany characters including the approximately named Psycho Sam and several hunters all end in a police chase that leads to Hector getting arrested for allegedly kidnapping Ricky based on misinterpreted statements Ricky told the hunters that Hector was making him do things he didn't want to do. Ricky eventually reunites with Hector after a while and upholds his promise of teaching Hector how to read. Overall, this was another zany, brilliant story from Taika Waititi that is well-paced, well-shot, and isn't overly filled with deliberate jokes and humor like Thor: Ragnarok; as the humor mainly comes from how the story plays out and doesn't need to be relied on by a comic-relief character. Although, Rachel House and Rhys Darby who plays Psycho Sam are very humorous and can be seen as comic relief, they just let the jokes flow naturally and don't feel forced to tell them.
Great, heartwarming movie
Want to see something fresh and original, heartwarming but also substantial - this movie is for you. Its director has such a unique tone, and his talent puts New Zealand on the world movie map all over again. Well worth your time, a positive movie, but in a deepest sense there is.
Hunt For the Wilderpeople
So to start this film is a unique one and definitely had some fresh air for you to breathe with its original story. It follows a teen orphan introduced to this new environment, received with open arms. Hunt For The Wilderpeople is a hilarious comedy that blends in well with its heartwarming moments.
Amazing film from end to end.
I've been a fan of all of Taika Waititi's films for a while now, so when I prepared myself to watch this film I had very high expectations. I was not let down. This movie is amazing, from beautiful scenery and authentic sets, I was totally drawn in. The mood established thought the film is on a level of comedy so hilarious and so balanced with the overal theme that I can hardly handle it. The casting is perfect and all the characters seemed written just for the people portraying them. I love everything about this movie and can't recommend it enough.
Conventional but enjoyable
Ricky (Julian Dennison) is an aboriginal, delinquent teenager who is transferred among foster homes in urban New Zealand. His newest foster assignment is in a farm near the wilderness. After a series of mishaps and misunderstandings, Ricky and the man of the house (Sam Neill) live in the bush as they are hunted down by government authorities.
There is an early disappointment in the film when a likeable, eccentric character disappears too soon. Also, the plot device of an "old grouch" unlikely bonding with a misunderstood teenage boy has been done many, many times before.
Despite these complaints, "Hunt for the Wilderpeople" is still an enjoyable movie. This is mainly because of Dennison's and Neill's performances - both individually and in their mutual chemistry. The film also gives credibility to a repeated theme: that bureaucrats rarely (if ever) give outcasts the help they need but still try to dominate their lives. Near the end, there is also a nostalgic reminder of "Thelma and Louise".
With some good humour and the beauty of the New Zealand wilderness, this movie comes off as rather gratifying. - dbamateurcritic.
Great
It was soooo great! Enjoyed every moment of it! The whole cast was amazing!
A gem from New Zealand
It's great when you come across a film that you have barely heard of and it turns out to be a hidden gem. Netflix and Amazon are great for these kind of films and Hunt for the Wilderpeople really is a cracking little film.
This is the story of city kid Ricky , who gets a fresh start in the New Zealand countryside. He quickly finds himself at home with his new foster family. When a tragedy strikes that threatens to ship Ricky to another home, both he and Hec go on the run in the bush. As a national manhunt ensues, the newly branded outlaws must face their options: go out in a blaze of glory or overcome their differences and survive as a family.
We all know the acting qualities that Sam Neill has and he is great in this but the star of this particular show is Julian Dennison who plays Ricky. Rarely have I seen comedy timing from a kid like he has in this film. I laughed out loud several times during this movie which is unusual for me and comedies. The one liners are brilliant and that credit has to go to New Zealand director and screenplay writer Taika Waititi . I usually cringe when I hear that a movie is "feel good" but not in this case. Recommended
Beyond perfectionWow. The most fun I've had watching a movie. The jokes never miss, and are absolutely hilarious. It even hits you in the feels on two seperate occasions. The cinematography is wonderul, the visuals of the new zealand forest is stunning aswell. For the love of god, see this movie!!
Delightful!
I just saw "Hunt for the Wilderpeople" (2016) and it was absolutely wonderful. All the performances were good. I didn't hate the kid and Sam Neil was very good as Hector. There was a very believable bond between Ricky and Hector, and when they had the "get mad at each other and leave" scene, it didn't feel forced (partly because of the subject matter) and I loved that it didn't go on for too long. All the cinematography was fantastic. It was very funny and I love the kind of dark sense of humor that the movie had. I think this had a great soundtrack! and it's not just great songs that already existed and wasn't composed for the movie (though there was a lot in there), also the composed music is really good. It gives off a very mysterious feeling. All the characters were very likable, and not stereotypes (except "psycho sam"), and it was great. I wouldn't give it a 10/10 like some people are, because it has some problems. There was some stereotypes in the movie, (An example being "psycho sam" being the conspiracy theorist stereotype) I think there should have been some more time devoted to the relationship between Ricky and Bella, and I think the plot was kinda predictable. But, I still think this movie was very fun and enjoyable, and I'll definitly recommend it. i give this a 8/10
A Black black comedy of many colours
Kiwis people taking the micky out of themselves for your entertainment. If you're not one of these people who like to eat the same best food in the same best restaurants all the time, you may enjoy this crazy story very much. And it's what it's all about; to have a good time for a short while, let your hair down and just take things as they are, then forget about it. I realise it's not always possible and some just won't be able to take it. I had a good time with it when watching it at the cinema. And today I had it taped for a few days, had forgotten a lot about it. But going back to my food analogy when you eat an ice cream you don't plan to talk and ponder about it for the rest of your life you just want to enjoy it NOW! I did just this and really enjoy it again, wart and all. Yes watching this difficult obese kid on a remote area and paired with an old recluse, that fate welded together despite their obvious mismatch. Then you just need to go with the flow riding the absurd and the more serious stuff just for the fun of it. You also get gorgeous NZ landscape shots. Once again it's interesting to see how people may differ, I feel just privileged to be one of those who got much pleasure out of it, and hope you'll be or were one of them too.
In New Zealand bush - A fat kid and an old man - Majestical time
Haikus are a great way to express your feelings and young Ricky sure has a lot of them. Ricky Baker (Julian Dennison) is the blissfully charming victim-of the-system kid that many kiwis probably know all to well. He's on his last chance to make his new foster family work and finds a tough challenge in old man Hector.
"Uncle Heck" played by Sam Neil is the dogged bastard who is matched only in sheer stubbornness by this kid. Shit gets real in the NZ jungle and this unlikely pairing become a hilarious duo on a ride through life taking the rest of the country with them.
Really the film can be summed up in just one word. Character. What the film lacks in post production and cinematography it makes up for in screenplay and charm. I don't think it's Taika Waititi best direction it is an an example of New Zealand's funniest and finest and for 2 and a half million bucks I doubt anyone could have done better.
could be a Disney flick
This is fun to see, it has an overall Disney atmosphere, you know, rebel kid coming to foster parents, the woman loves him, the man hates him, woman dies, and off they go, man and kid for an adventure.
The brutality people talking about is when animals are involved. They are killed in a savage way. I guess that youngster could even watch this because it all works out fine towards the end. Siometimes it goes a bit over the top with the army involved.
Also some nice shots of the bush in New zealand.
This director and his stars certainly have the "knack" for a great film
From New Zealand's best director, Waititi ('Eagle Vs Shark', 'Boy', 'What We Do in the Shadows'), comes 'Hunt for the Wilderpeople', which is a title that doesn't make much sense, but when explained with kid logic, it does - "Wildebeest walk thousands of miles. Feels like we've walked that may too. That must make us Wilderpeople!" Simple premise - Ricky (Dennison) is an orphan adopted by Bella (Te Wiata) and Hector (Neill), but when Bella dies unexpectedly, Child Services want to put Ricky back in 'juvie', so he runs away into the bush, where Hector has to protect him.
There's so many things to like about this film - the score is great, the little chapter subtitles keep the pace moving, the visuals are stunning (or "majestical"), being filmed on New Zealand's north island, there's plenty of great jokes/quips and, most importantly, there's lots of heart. There's some nice sentimental moments and some sad ones, handled equally as well as the comedy. The bond formed by Hector and Ricky isn't forced or fake - it happens naturally and you become really attached to the characters, since it's mostly the two of them throughout.
But there's still some time for some good support cast - Paula (House) as the 'Terminator'-like Child Services Officer hunting them down, Waititi himself as the priest and "Psycho" Sam (Darby). Probably my only criticism is that the film needed more Rhys Darby! It's great to see Neill understated and slowly shed his shell, but the film belongs to Dennison - chirpy, optimistic in spite of his ordeals and genuinely funny.
That sums it up. I expected a lot more. It starts off fine, but then evolves into a chase film that they didn't seem to know how or when to end. The main characters are fine, except the boy. They make him bounce back & forth from "wise & sensitive" to obnoxious & obtuse. He goes back & forth. Over & over. It is one of those films where I get to a point & think "This thing has peaked. I should just shut it off now & remember it better for it." I decided to the watch the end, but if you decide to shut it off when they leave Sam, you'll be fine.
You know, Bella was probably the best character. And then ... gone.
Endless Fun
I honestly did not want this story to end. This is one of the most enjoyable movies I have ever seen. Original, entertaining and deeply heartfelt--prepare for a sucker punch in the feels! Taika's masterful work just gets better with every film. Shout out to every actor in this movie for doing a flawless job.
Slow start but good once it gets going
Bella and Hector, two reclusive country folk, become foster parents to Ricky, a problem child from the city. After some adjustment, things go reasonably well. However, the death of Bella means Hector now has to look after Ricky, and they didn't get along too well. Moreover, her death causes Child Services to decide to send Ricky back to the orphanage. Ricky refuses to go back and runs away, ultimately sparking a national manhunt for him and Hector.
Sweet, funny movie, written and directed by Taika Waititi who wrote and directed the superb vampire-comedy, What We Do In The Shadows (plus, more recently, directed Thor: Ragnarok).
Starts slowly, with only a smattering of humour and limited engagement. However, from a point it ramps up. The humour comes thicker and faster, you start to root for the characters and the plot becomes quite interesting. Some great scenes - the ones involving Psycho Sam (Rhys Darby) being the pick of the bunch.
Overall, not too powerful nor poignant, but very funny, interesting and full of heart.
Very Entertaining
Story of the group of outcast that shares same tragic Very Entertaining Everything was good but I feel that it's a bit too long Could cut off 10 minutes of the movie will not harm a bit Acting was good Sam Neil nails it. And the director is also in the movie as always funny and interesting all the time.
The New Zealand version of "Up"
The first half an hour of this movie is very good. Some scenes are hilarious, the characters are very interesting and you just get caught up into the whole story. But then they kill off the most interesting character (the aunt) and what you get after that is a New Zealand version of "Up". It was so refreshing to see a female character with such humor and joy and rich personality like the aunty character. And then you are left with the cliché of an old grumpy man and a problematic fat kid, that didn't lose a single pound during God knows how many months of living in the bushes. OK, the story is alright, but the jungle chase gets just boring at some point and the dialogues weren't that interesting as in the beginning. The movie ends with a spectacular car chase with explosions like it was some cheap action movie. That was quite disappointing for me. But nevertheless, it's an amusing movie to watch.
One of the 2010s very best family films. And so much more.
Hunt for the Wilderpeople is Taika Waititi's fourth feature film, and arguably his finest one. I love this movie: the New Zealand scenery and cast of this film not only helps with the film's broad yet culturally specific appeal, it tells story that is hilarious, touching and very memorable. Hunt for the Wilderpeople is a comedy-drama about family and how social misfits only truly understand each other. Ricky Baker is adopted by Bella and Hec. And things only get more complicated and wacky when Bella passes away, leaving Hec to take care of Ricky himself.
The film takes surprising turns when you least expect it to. It's still very much a comedy but one that takes emotional risks for the sake of the story rather than shock value. Taika Waititi based this film off a book, that may have been so niche that it doesn't have its own wikipedia page. It's great we live in a world where a director like Waititi gives life to a story where the world doesn't realise it wants it or needs it. Hunt for the Wilderpeople is one such film.
If you want a film that provides belly-laughs and great characters, Hunt for the Wilderpeople is surprisingly easy to get into. Watch the film; just see it asap. It's a Kiwi-delight and one of 2016's best movies.
One of the most boring movies I have watched in a while
I watched this movie because of all the hype. Let me tell you, it was disappointing, boring and, generally very very overrated. The story is linear and predictable. It could be that I didn't get the movie maybe because it has references to the culture but I also doubt that. I would not recommend this to anyone.
Absolute gem!
Such a lovely heartwarming film, highly recommend.
The cast is fantastic and all the beats are on point.
Looking forward to seeing what the director does with Thor: Ragnarok.
This film had me glued from start to finish.
Sequel?...
This ain't no foster kid childThe characters were all great and likable, even the "bad" guys. The dialogue was superb with old film references. Worth going out of your way to watch it.
Revels in a unique, idyllic quirkiness that could have only come out of somewhere like New Zealand
Hunt for the Wilderpeople is a New Zealand film starring Sam Neill and directed by Taika Waititi (Eagle vs. Shark, 'Boy' the Movie, and Thor: Ragnarok). Based on the book "Wild Pork and Watercress" by Barry Crump, its unique charm and humour boost the appeal of what would have been an otherwise generic bonding story.
Funny, poignant, and well-cast, Hunt for the Wilderpeople revels in a unique, idyllic quirkiness that could have only come out of somewhere like New Zealand. The film's dramatic moments always hit home and never feel like they were inserted merely for cheap emotional effect. The humour, which is very dry and tongue-in-cheek, frequently adds to the film's likability and unconventional tone. Newcomer Julian Dennison shines as Ricky Baker, a rebellious young boy with a heart of gold and Sam Neill plays off him quite well as his irritable foster uncle.
The movie is enjoyable but don't expect too much of it.
Usually when I see a bad rating I check the reviews because often the movie ain't as bad as the rating would make you think... With this movie I saw a good rating but because the "storyline" didn't really impress me I overview-ed the reviews. Wow, I only saw 8, 9s and 10s so this must be a good movie! I couldn't be more wrong! Don't get me wrong, the movie was not bad but and 8, 9 or 10??? No way! So I don't really get the hype of all the reviewers.... Then I thought maybe it's because the reviews are mostly from New-Zealander but now I checked that I see most aren't even from New-Zealand...
Anyway.... the movie is enjoyable but don't expect too much of it.
Christmas is being great for me so far, I'm glad I left the good movies to watch around this time of the year! Humble performances, unbelievable direction by Taika Waititi (he's directing Thor: Ragnarok as well, so my expectations for that movie just increased a lot), beautiful soundtrack, amazing humor and a great message for kids these days.
I'll start with the cast: Sam Neill and Julian Dennison are incredible! They're the film's engine and without them, everything would crumble. Humble, honest and captivating, they give great performances that kept me invested in the plot and in their relationship, which is the main focus of this movie. They're so much different and the constant bickering between them made me want more and more from them. It gives a truly heartfelt message for kids that no matter how tough growing up is, you'll always have someone to help you along the way, even if they seem to be the complete opposite from you.
I love the supporting characters, especially Psycho Sam (Rhys Darby), I laughed so much with his scenes. I didn't like this guy that kept asking the kid for a selfie, he's super annoying, but thank God he's in the movie for only a couple of minutes. The partnership between Andy (Oscar Kightley) and Paula (Rachel House) is also very funny and, by the end, they're the main source of humor that Taika Waititi knew how to explore.
Talking about the man, what an amazing filmmaker! I'm so humbly grateful for his work, he controls this movie in such a wonderful and masterful way. The editing is spot on, the characters are greatly developed, the violent scenes are well shot for a NR-rated installment, the comedy is so good and the soundtrack is delightful. I have no flaws with his work, it's perfect!
The only issues I have with this film are the sometimes slow pacing and the forced ending. I don't believe that a certain character would behave in the manner that it is showed, it feels forced so that the movie can actually have an ending and it kind of ruined what could have been an A+.
Still, Hunt for the Wilderpeople is one of the best comedies of the year, it delivers a beautiful and heartfelt message through two honest performances, a perfect directing by Taika Waititi (don't forget this name!), great humor and a wonderful soundtrack.
Its either good or bad
I could watch this movie again. I liked it a ton. there's plenty of jokes and there are so many things anyone can relate to. I honestly didn't think I would like this movie because it seemed like a kids movie but i was wrong. Laughed and enjoyed myself on nearly every scene. Watch it! you wont regret it. These rare movies good movies don't show up too often. Cheers!
Amazing
This movie touched my heart like no other movie this past year have done. This movie truly shows what freedom is all about, it's doing what ever you want, because you only have one life and there is no second chance.
It has happy and sad parts, and shows what its like to have nothing, like this little young boy in this movie. He wants to be free, like all of us here living on planet earth.
Best Indie Film Ever
Hunt for the wilder people was a fantastic movie. The location is set in New Zealand and it is based around a mischievous boy. The location was remarkable and the cast was fantastic. I would definitely watch this movie again. I really hope that they make a sequel as the ending left the audience hanging. Although overall I thought it was an amazing movie.
This is a funny movie
I had my wife and kids in the room just after watching some program I cannot remember when I just stuck this on blind. I did not know what to expect other than it was family oriented. Normally my kids vote with heir feet after 10 mins but with this one they started to laugh. I put it on because Sam Neil was in it and he did not disappoint.
the movie is funny, sad, moving, exciting, and silly in equal measure. It is a rare event when a movie creates something really special and this one achieves it. I do not want to over egg it but if it holds the attention of my teenage daughters and they say it was good then something special has just happened. One even later told her friends it was her favorite movie.
A warning for those with younger viewers as there are some verbal references of a sexual nature and one scene of violence towards an wild animal. If you're comfortable with that then watch and enjoy.
This Will Not Be the Last Time You Hear Taika Waititi's Name
Hunt for the Wilderpeople is an absolute delight of a film. It sports hilarious performances from Julian Dennison (Ricky) and Sam Neill (Hec), however, I wanted to talk about Taika Waititi's direction in this film.
At times, his work reminded me a bit of Wes Anderson, with its use of jump cuts to guide the viewer through specific scenes. By doing this, Waititi speeds up the pace of the film. It is not a frantic pace, but one that highlights the best parts of what it has to offer, such as the first birthday party Ricky shares with his new foster parents or the scene with him dancing in the forest. Waititi's direction highlights those hilarious moments so well. I also really enjoyed the way he framed specific characters. He tended to start with a character in the center of the frame - specifically in a close up - and fill out the rest of the frame from there. I thought that focus drew my attention to the center of the frame well. The story of Hunt for the Wilderpeople is heart-warming, hilarious one that is only made better by director Taika Waititi's stamp.
What we do in the ... mountains
So after the faux-reality TV soap slash documentary about vampires, we get real. Well still weirdly funny and exaggerated, but still closer to reality then the previous film entry. One thing is for sure: The casting department did their job well. The kid is phenomenal. To play off Sam Neil like that? Respect is due to him.
But it also has a tight script and if you liked the other mentioned movie, you will very likely go for the humor in this one too. It's not PC and it may bother some people who are easily offended. That being said, it doesn't mean it has no heart. Quite the opposite is the case, I'd argue it has a lot of heart. And you may feel emotional during this ride/trip the movie takes you (no pun intended) ... don't be ashamed! It's a good thing ...
Perfection
A crazy, quirky, funny, sad, shocking, heart warming film about a boy in care being given one last chance. Adventure ensues with a bonkers adoption mother and adoption father who doesn't want to be one.
Beautiful New Zealand scenery, larger than life characters and lots of laughs sandwiching pathos and surreal moments. It's just a wonderful watch.
An outstanding movie
Hunt For the Wilderpeople is an outstanding movie, delving into interesting themes while being funny and witty. The cinematography is incredible and the score is perfect. The acting performance by Sam Neil is terrific with main antagonist Rachael House really selling an amazingly annoying yet funny character.
This movie also knows how to deal with many emotions, very well. I was in stitches laughing and then found my self crying in the next moment.
I love how this movie uses not being a Hollywood movie to it's advantage and the scenery is just jaw dropping.
I highly recommend this movie. I have watched it 4 times now and it has never seized to make my day. This is and will be for a long time, my favourite movie.
I didn't want to watch this movie. I had seen the trailer and it was great and for many movies the trailer is where it begins and ends... three funny or clever or cute lines and the rest is filler.
Not here! This was nothing short of a remarkable little gem, a touch of brilliance, utterly charming in every way.
I have never liked Sam Neil... yes, he can act but... in this marvellous romp of a film he's actually likable and perfect in his role.
As for Julian Dennison... this kid is brilliant... nothing overdone, the best delivery of the one-liners that were all through this joyful masterpiece... I'm not so sure this boy was actually acting or just having a very good time! All of the cast were perfect, every face fit the bill.
The script - not sure how much came straight from the book, possibly quite a bit - but this was truly funny! The rarest thing in a movie ever these days is anything that is genuinely actually funny. The moving moments were smart, direct and quick and all of the actors knew how to carry these moments well. I can only think that the director was superbly working all the moments, that this very, very clever, funny film was filled with care and attention and lots of remarkable talent.
I couldn't help myself, I watched it two days in a row. Fabulous. And I will never forget some of those one-liners: 'Vegetables?' 'The knack!'
The over the top ending - priceless.
Great Movie
One of the best, funniest, and heartfelt movies that I have seen in the past few years. The soundtrack for the entire movie is also amazing and a great listen. Right after I finished this movie with my room mates, I felt myself wanting to watch it again. It is a great coming of age story for both Ricky and Uncle, and I highly recommend this movie to all of my friends and family.
Delightful from start to finish
Mildly delinquent 12 year old urban Maori fat kid Ricky has been in juvenile care all his life. His social worker places him with Bella, who lives with surly husband Hec, miles out beyond the back of beyond. Ricky tries running away, but there's nowhere to run to. And gradually, Bella's sheer joie de vivre begins to win him over. Then Bella drops dead, devastating both Hec and Ricky. Ricky will have to go back into care, so he runs away into the Bush. Hec pursues him and, on finding him, breaks his ankle and can't move: the two are stuck in position for some weeks. And everyone assumes that taciturn loner Hec....
This is a small film, mostly a two-hander, treading a moderately well-trodden path (see also Up). Julian Dennison is a joy as the tubby Ricky, both streetwise and naïve. And the heavily bearded Hec, looking and sounding like Hugo Weaving is played by Sam Neill. And it's a revelation. The part is miles away from anything he's done before, and he is terrific.
The film is funny, suspenseful, heart-warming, sad, and beautiful to look at.
Heartily recommended.Good
The film is of great simplicity; that is full of great laughs and touching moments all down to the great performances and the script but most of it is because of the relationship between the uncle and the boy; as we see this relationship blossom and develop that helps us as the audience, feel more intrigued into the lives and the outcomes of the characters thus we feel more welcome to laugh and feel sad as the film progresses. But it's also the tiny things that the director adds which makes it a little bit better like the use of the chapters to the set the tone for them series of acts in that specific chapter or the montage at the start giving a quick overview of the boy's misfits in urban life, sometimes the little things do matter.
On the other hand though this film isn't perfection or a masterpiece(you shouldn't expect it to be)the pacing feels 'awkward' or 'misplaced' which sometimes destroys the atmosphere of the film. But it's exactly what you expect it to be, which can always be good sometimes.
Rebel Homesteader
I'll start off by saying I like films with understated humor and this film has more than it's share. I'm assuming it's a unique brand of New Zealand humor and it's done quite well.
Given enough time, the film could possibly move to cult status due to the bigger-than-life character villains who seem to take their establishment jobs far too serious.
The plot may deliver a few over the top stereotypes yet there's also many unexpected gems.
An off-beat spin to the typical coming of age story for a lad who's had a rough start to life. But rather than take a dark and brooding tone, the film uses indigenous storytelling and pop culture influences as the boy's escapism tools.
When he lands in yet another foster home, he finds a surrogate family willing to accept his odd behavior. Yet, the happiness doesn't last and tragedy strikes again. Rather than go back to the authorities, the boy decides to fake his death.
This is a lad used to running on imagination rather than common sense. So he decides life in the wilderness is a better option to yet another foster or group home. Unfortunately, he's ill-equip to handle the rough terrain let alone hunt. The rest of his journey unfolds in unpredictable ways although we know eventually he will get caught.
Most viewers will probably root for a happy ending or at least envision him escaping his fate. All I will say is the film doesn't disappoint, which is a good thing.
These days international and indie films are on my watchlist as I'm a bit jaded towards Hollywood and it's CGI regurgitation formulas. I'm still trying to figure out why there's a need to make both Suicide Squad and Dr. Strange. One would have sufficed!
While The Hunt for the Wilderpeople is not a complicated story, the delivery of the story is both fun and entertaining to watch.
Well done NZ. Well done.
Makes you feel happy
I was left with a perma-grin when this movie finished. It's silly, funny, touching and sweet, but never saccharin.
It's jam packed with irreverent humour, in-jokes at New Zealand's expense and pokes fun at outsiders preconceptions of Kiwi's.
The characters are also all great. It's probably my favourite role I've seen Sam Neil play in a long time. He is brilliant. The supporting cast are likewise, excellent. Rachel House's child protection officer, has some of the funniest lines and plays what could have easily been an over-the-top character, on just the right side of mad. Her moment on Kiwi breakfast TV had me rolling on the floor.
The star of the show however, is Julian Dennison's gangster orphan. Who's crimes include such heinous acts as, loitering and throwing stuff. He is effortlessly funny throughout and very likable. He is able to handle subtle humour, sensitivity and drama in a way that would put many actors 3 times his age to shame.
The locations too are beautiful, really showing off NZ's landscape.
If you like comedy with a bit of heart and don't mind silliness on occasion, this movie is right up your street. It's funny and touching and puts most (if not all) the recent U.S efforts to shame.
Hunt for the Wilder People - A funny comedy, that should have trusted it's characters a little bit more
I wish, Hunt for the Wilder People has had a little bit more trust in it's characters and story. Then it could have been a truly, great film. Unfortunately, Taika Waititi felt the need to crank the humor up to eleventystupid every once in awhile in an otherwise very sincere story. Seeing the polar characters of the 13 year old, overweight kid Ricky and his grumpy foster parent Hector come together and develop their friendship was not only very funny. It was told with respect for the characters. Both actors, veteran Sam Neill and youngster Julian Dennison, did an awesome job in portraying these misfits, who both seem to have no place in society. The movie worked best, when it was just the two of them. Unfortunately, you cannot say the same for the rest of the cast, most notably perhaps for the cameo of director Waititi himself as a minister at a funeral service. He was a caricature and not taken to be serious for any moment. And he was not the only one, who ruined the tone of the movie for me. Paula, the head of child welfare, who was supposed to be the antagonist, also was just laughable. I just couldn't take her serious, she was just preposterous, and that undermined a lot of the story for me. Both Ricky and Hector had real problems: they have been sort of exiled from the rest of the world, they had to deal with some real, personal tragedies and I rooted for them. But this was undermined by characters and plot lines that were not for a single second believable and completely out of place. I wish, the movie had taken it's own convictions a little bit more serious. Then, this could have been a really touching movie. Now, it is more of a farce, that has some real funny moments, two great actors in the middle, but ultimately feels a bit hollow.
A modern fairy tale that exudes warmth and joy
HUNT FOR THE WILDERPEOPLE is the story of a young boy who, through some unfortunate circumstances, is left alone with a grumpy old foster parent, played by Sam Neill. The boy and his reluctant protector escape from the child welfare officials who seek to put the boy into juvenile prison. The escape develops from a survival story into a manhunt of epic proportions.
This movie has heart and rhythm!! — It's brimming with life, New Zealand humor and most of all: A genuine sense of a developing friendship. The story never prods along. It feels fast paced but not rushed, with just enough time to give each character some depth.
Cinematographically, there's some really cool editing in here and some beautiful high production shots of New Zealand's impressive landscape, overlaid by funky 80's tunes. So, go and watch this modern fairy tale that exudes warmth and joy.
sweet, not cloying - smart, not cynical
Superbly acted, this movie will delight you! It's not afraid to make you cry, but it doesn't try to work you up. It's got a hint of wry humor without the cynicism, and it's got plenty of sweetness without trying too hard. I was surprised by how much I loved this movie, and you will be too. Rachel House as Paula Hall, the zealous child welfare case worker, steals the scene wherever she appears.
An excellent Comedical, Visual and Emotional Adventure !!!
Firstly, I'm so impressed by this film that I couldn't but help to write My First Review on IMDb for a film.
The first aspect is the Cinematography of this film. I knew NZ was like a Heaven on Earth, but this movie makes it crystal clear to whomever sees it. Extremely breathtaking 'bushes' spread across millions of hectares.
Secondly, the Actors and the Story. The story was based of a Ricky(Julian Dennison) acts brilliantly and fitting as the Fat- orphaned kid who's sort of a Rebel in attitude, adopted by the couple Bella(Rime Te Wiata) & Hector(Sam Niell), both suiting their characters who live in the middle of the breathtaking forests all alone in their comfortable little house. Ricky tries to adjust to his new family, until a tragedy struck them. Hec & Ricky set out on sort of an unexpected expedition, which the Child Welfare services mistake it for Kidnapping and order an National Manhunt longing for several months. Will the Boy & Uncle get away from the clutches of the CWS trying to get hold of the boy and send him to Juvie ?
Thirdly, the director, Taika Waititi whose previous work isn't yet aware to me, has done some fitting screenplay with the way scenes are shot in the wild.
Lastly, the soundtrack of the movie goes in so well that I keep listening again.
Overall, The movie's definitely worth your time as we go on a laughter riot, emotional and visual adventure. P.s. The movie contains a two short bits of killing of wild animals. If you can bear it, It's enjoyable !
Boyz in da Wood
A film with a lot to say, the absurdist story of 13-year-old Ricky Baker and his "uncle" Heck; as they trek through New Zealand's dense bushland; is charming, light and thoughtful, if sometimes a little dull.
Clearly director Taika Waititi makes a number of distinct social commentaries via his characters and the way they act, respond and are generally represented (the media, social services and the treatment of children are really run through the ringer) but at its heart we see the real story here is the relationship between our two main protagonists, the nominative "Wilderpeople". But despite its quirky sensibility and smattering of genuinely delightful humour, the film does fall flat at times, leaving a prevailing sense of desire for emotional stakes and consequences to be further built upon and delved into. Whilst applaudable not to dwell on more tragic moments, more visible reflection from characters and subsequent conflict (such as post-Wild Boar encounter) is noticeably absent. On the other hand, you can understand with the soft approach of the movie this decision, which clearly delights in its light frothiness and affability.
Fun, funny, adventurous, has a lot of heart
I loved this movie very much. Sam Neill as a good-hearted prickly grouch--he always delivers great acting, along with his wife or female partner (not sure). The kid was really great, too. Be prepared to laugh a lot and have your heart warmed as Sam and the kid find their way through their adventures in the outback as well as finding themselves psychologically. The movie is full of outlandish yet completely believable surprises. I haven't laughed this much since Les Visiteurs.
On The Road
This is basically a road picture with the difference being that instead of the road, the adventure takes place in the New Zealand wilderness. Sam Neill plays the caretaker of a troubled adolescent boy who has been placed with him and his wife through the foster child program. The wife is out of the picture early on, and thus begins the strange journey into the woods with the state authorities in hot pursuit. The scenery is spectacular and Neill has a Mel Gibson like wise ass quality which works well in the interplay between him and the boy. They meet many odd people along the way, and I am surprised that the film wasn't chosen as one of the nominees for best foreign film for 2016; it is that good. Great acting, smart script and a good soundtrack add up to a really good movie and one of my favorites for 2106.
funny dark indie
Child welfare services officer Paula Hall sees foster kid Ricky Baker as a troublemaker. Auntie Bella takes him in and quickly wins him over. Her husband Hector Faulkner (Sam Neill) is a gruff woodsman. Bella unexpectedly dies and Paula Hall is coming to take Ricky back. Ricky accidentally burns down the shed and runs away. Hec hurts his foot after finding Ricky lost in the woods. Paula rings the alarm as the police fears Ricky has been taken by Hec. It becomes a large manhunt in the wilds of New Zealand. Ricky calls themselves the Wilderpeople after the wildebeests who migrate long distances.
I like the kid despite his sometimes inexplicable bratty behavior. He and Sam Neill have good chemistry. The character Paula Hall does bug me at times. She's trying to be comedic but she's also off-putting even considering she's a villain. There is a joy about the humor that feels real. The kid and Sam deserve a lot of praise.
Hilarious and Homely.
Hunt for the Wilderpeople follows a delinquent city kid and his foster uncle and their hilarious adventure through the New Zealand bush. I really enjoyed this film not just because it was extremely funny, but also because I have lived in New Zealand for a number of years and found it really homely. However even if you are not from New Zealand, this movie will really connect with you on an emotional level and almost feel like home. I found Hunt for the Wilderpeople more enjoyable than Boy (2010), another Taika Waititi movie, since it was faster-paced, had a more definite story line, funnier and contained less swearing. If you're looking for a movie that can make you laugh, cry and laugh some more, Hunt for the Wilderpeople is the movie for you.
Ninjas! Direwolves! Child Services!
Okay, so I sat down with 'Hunt For The Wilderpeople' today after hearing lots of good word of mouth and enjoying the trailer on Youtube. About fifteen minutes in, I decided I loved it. There was a scene where a Priest makes a catastrophically awful speech which was so funny I had to pause the film so I could calm down and not miss the next few scenes.
That speech was made at a funeral for a character who's death was utterly heartbreaking.
And essentially, that sums up why 'Hunt For The Wilderpeople' works so well. It's a film that mixes bittersweet sentimentality with some genuinely funny moments. There are moments where you'll smile knowingly to yourself, moments where you'll chuckle politely and a few where your stomach muscles will hurt from guffawing so much. There are more laughs in this film than Adam Sandler has managed in the last ten years.
The film focuses on juvenile delinquent Ricky Baker as he goes into foster care at a farm house in the New Zealand bush. His new Aunt Bella adores him, while his new Uncle Hector just wants to be left in peace. Events conspire to cast Ricky and Hector into the wilderness together. One injured ankle and a few misunderstandings later, they're at the centre of a manhunt and have to flee because...well, because they didn't choose the Skuxx Life, the Skuxx Life chose them.
The end result is a film that's packed with quotable dialogue, a wealth of memorable characters and an infectious sense of humour. This is a movie where there are no cool or commanding personas, everyone is a little bit rubbish. There's an over-zealous child support worker who thinks she's a Terminator, a few Cops who are nowhere near as committed as they should be and a chatty teenage girl with a cheerfully idiotic dad.
Most of all though, there's the central duo. Julian Dennison's wayward thirteen year old and Sam Neil's exasperated old-timer make a wonderful lead duo. Neil makes a reluctant father figure, forever struggling against a world full of morons while Dennison's Haiku- writing teen is a great foil. They bicker constantly but inevitably, form a bond over time. But unlike so many similar themed films, their eventual friendship feels genuine. They look and behave like real people, rather than actors abiding by genre conventions. And that makes the experience all the more entertaining.
What a lovely film!
A very sweet, touching, fun and silly coming of age film.
It was so easy to watch, but still unique and captivating.
All elements were thoughtfully executed, actors are amazing, story is great, scenery and cinematography is beautiful, music is excellent, no short cuts were taken, everything was at its best.
Every character was well developed or had something interesting to add, no matter how small the roll. As someone else pointed out, despite the gravity of the subject matter, Waititi keeps it light, although does not make light of the situation. We are left to consider the seriousness or the weightiness of life and death and our childcare system but through a humanizing lens. One could say this is a light political satire that delivers whimsy with its messaging, but I think the focus is truly on belonging.
Recommend this to everyone!
it's unfortunate that the Oscars do not honor these types of film
What do I mean by "these types of films"?
Well, to be perfectly honest, I have no idea, but whatever I actually do mean by "these types of films" they are certainly being unfairly rejected by the Academy. This movie was so damn good I can hardly comprehend how it didn't even get the Golden Globe nominee for best COMEDY, while "Florence Foster Jenkins"-a movie that I am sure is okay but not nearly as great as this-gets the honor, mainly because it happens to have Meryl Streep in it (of course, I have not seen that movie, but based on everything I know about it it cannot be nearly as special as this masterpiece).
Anyway, this film is practically flawless. I will admit that a few jokes were a bit too cliché and predictable, but for the most part all of the humor is great, unique, original, and hilariously dark. Some of the funniest scenes in the movie come from a funeral and suspected child molestation.
Despite its sometimes sick sense of humor, the film also has genuine heart. The arc of the two main characters may be slightly predictable, but it is presented in such a way that it tugs at your heart strings while also making you laugh and cry. It's a hilarious movie with plenty of heart, warmth, and sadness. The characters are all memorable and well developed, the performances-especially Sam Neil-are all fantastic and usually hilarious, and the plot is absolute insanity. This movie is zany, adventurous, and laugh out loud funny-and I could not recommend it enough!
Not what I expected, but still a brilliant flick with a lot of heart
I came to this movie from Taika Waititi's 2014 gem What We Do In The Shadows, which was friggin hilarious and totally my favorite comedy of the decade!
Keeping that in mind, I was expecting a laugh-out-loud dark comedy, but what I got was a heartwarming coming of age story about a young boy and his journey of finding a loving family. There were a couple of jokes here and there, some dry humor and sarcasm, but never once did it get anything more than a slight giggle from me and both instances were at the hunter cabin, with the cauc-Asian thing (which was in the trailer) and the "pervert innuendos". In the end, the movie gave me heart fuzzies!
Kinda reminded me of Mr Fantastic actually, which I think came out the same year! The correlation is more in the tone I think, a dramatic movie with wildly quirky characters, beautiful scenery, authentic family bonds/interaction, natural feeling comedy and a nice message of love!
So if you were like me, here's a warning: watch this with the premise of seeing a cute indie flick about a chubby "gangster" who disobeys, steals, spits, runs away, throws rocks, kicks stuff, loiters and makes graffiti. Also swears a lot and loves haiku!
What We Do in the Bush
Lost in New Zealand's bush outback, circumstances cause the local authorities to incorrectly assume that an elderly farmer has kidnapped his foster child for deviant reasons in this blend of comedy and drama from 'What We Do in the Shadows' director Taika Waititi. The film pulls in somewhat expected directions with the old man and the boy gradually bonding despite neither really wanting much to do with the other in the first place, however, the movie is constantly elevated by the quality of the principal performances. Julian Dennison (in his first leading role) is charming as the boy in question and Sam Neill offers one of his most heartfelt turns as his adoptive father. The supporting performances are a little uneven with Rachel House over-the-top as an overbearing child protective services officer who takes her job far too seriously, though there is something to be said for how heartless she is around Dennison, even early on, describing him as little more than a 'problem child'. This ties in well with the film's themes of perception and misleading appearances as we soon discover that although sullen and moody, Dennison is a warm and energetic young man; indeed, the overall story is about two lonely souls who connect as they find themselves equally misunderstood by the world at large. Message aside though, 'Hunt for the Wilderpeople' is a downright funny film. Some of the humour is a little on the cute side, but all of Neill and Dennison's interactions are great; same goes for the scattered movie references throughout.
I processed that one for ages.
Taika Waititi tells us a lot about Ricky Baker in the opening of Hunt for the Wilderpeople without a peep from his mouth. A police car rolls through the hills to a choral musical backing. When he steps out from the vehicle, we get a glimpse of the Illuminati-inspired motto on the jacket back, and the soundtrack acknowledges it with an alien twang. Ricky is spoken for on behalf of welfare officer Paula, who immediately labels him a lost cause in a montage of his criminal activities (the lengthy rap sheet includes throwing rocks, kicking stuff, defacing stuff and lots of other heinous stuff). "He's a real piece of work," she proclaims. Ricky inspects the place quickly, and then wordlessly returns to the police car. This, and other various markers throughout the film, say a lot about how he has been bounced around foster parents all his life. He doesn't even rate himself lasting the day here - might as well get onto the next 'home'.
But this couple do want him. Well, half of them do. In a wonderfully affectionate performance lasting all of twenty minutes, Rima Te Wiata crafts a character of great warmth and wit who seems to be able to do it all; the only thing she's missing is a child to pass it along to. Aunt Bella, like most of Waititi's characters, is a hyper-caricature with a good heart; she's thoughtful enough to leave both a sharp knife to kill monsters in the night as well as a hottie to keep Ricky warm. She relays this through the door because she has an inkling of what a good mother's qualities are, having envisioned this her whole life, and tries to respect his boundaries. Yet she is so excited she peaks around the door anyway, if only to make sure that he hasn't vanished on the spot. In the morning she urges him to at least have breakfast before he runs away. She's at once honest and revealing, and under no illusions of what Ricky has gone through. Her birthday rendition of what has to be a self-written ode to "good as gold" Ricky on a little toy piano is as heartwarming as a big gulp of hot soup on a rainy day. Has Paula ever told Ricky he has value? Has anyone?
But then a thunderclap of a curveball hits them, and the film descends into the well-treaded material promised in the trailer: the formidable team of cantankerous old Hec and the chubby, impressionable Ricky on an adventure for the ages. The story is doled out in chapters unveiled in white, curly text giving the impression of a storybook come to life. Each frame Ricky stumbles across in his oversized hoodies are filled to the brim with character and attitude; see how Waititi overlays several Rickys in the same shot to simulate the fact that he is lost, how he contemplates rationing then scarfs down the rest of his food, or how he manages to start a fire but is not cooking wild game, but trying to heat his hottie. Ricky is one of those twenty-first century children who communicate extensively through their knowledge of pop culture, and like the hazy, dreamlike visions of Michael Jackson in Waititi's Boy, Hunt for the Wilderpeople also freely indulges him. His introduction to the bloodshed of the bush is a thudding Psycho-inspired montage that zooms right up into his squished, horrified face. When he is first called upon to wield a gun to potentially save his uncle, action music pumps into our ears before the recoil unceremoniously drops him. If he was old enough he'd declare himself Clyde and old gruffy Hec Bonnie. What these also reveal is the self-soothing nature of Waititi's characters, and how Ricky has fashioned himself a defense mechanism; he can conjure music at will, and the fact that there's nothing around but sticks and leaves has never stopped him.
Locals will fondly remember Julian from Waititi's anti drug-driving commercial in 2013, which itself took from his short film Two Cars, One Night. Both contemplate the uncanny ability of children being able to apply their own humour and logic to darker and more uncomfortable situations, revealing the flip side of parental negligence. Ricky doesn't even get to have that experience. His dialogue unconsciously reveals the pains of his upbringing, and how he recycles the positive mantras that have been beaten into him: "Okay Debbie Downer, let's write a haiku." Paula's escalation in her attempts to recapture him hint at the self-fulfilling prophecy that she anoints each foster kid. At first he's a real bad egg, but by the climax they're being cornered by tanks and SWAT squadrons as if they were international criminals. It's a stigma that grows exponentially. Her self-stylised motto 'no child left behind' initially seems heartwarming, but becomes more sinister with each iteration; she's not so much concerned withhis wellbeing as she is with making sure there is another foster family lined up. Ricky never stood a chance.
In Chapter Seven, titled 'A Normal Life', Ricky is allowed to settle into the home of Kahu (Look at how Waititi shoots their fateful meeting. She's approaching from the left, she's approaching from the right, she swishes her hair in slow motion, the lens flare blinds Ricky! He's in love. Hilarious.) They sit down and begin to tentatively open up about their past. And then the camera pans across, and reveals Kahu's dad to be silently listening on the couch beside them. The shot is brilliant because it sneaks up on us. It represents all the ideals of warmth and family that Ricky is so unaccustomed to, that someone could just sit and listen and understand. The feeling envelops him like a baby's swaddle, and for the first time in forever, he sleeps soundly. Ricky may not quite receive the same amount of affection from Hec, but their co-penned haikus are majestical.
Taika Waititi is one name you will soon remember for a very long time if you don't already know it. Waititi is writer/director here for 'Hunt for the Wilderpeople', which is already in the top 5 BEST movies of the year, but Waititi is also an actor too. He starred in and directed the recent 'What We Do In The Shadows', as well as directed 'Eagle vs Shark' and even worked on 'Flight of the Conchords' amongst other films. He is currently directing the upcoming 'Thor: Ragnarok' film for Marvel, and it's easy to see why Marvel hired this guy by watching 'Hunt for the Wilderpeople'. Even if the premise here is similar to other films, Waititi makes the story and characters entirely refreshing and original.
If you're a fan of Wes Anderson movies and Edgar Wright movies, then you're sure as hell to enjoy Waititi and his 'Hunt for the Wilderpeople', which is funny, charming, action-packed, and very heart-warming. It could be difficult to have all of these qualities in a film, buy Waititi weaves these elements in flawlessly and even leaves you wanting to spend hundreds of more hours with these two main characters. The film centers on a young, portly teenager named Ricky (Julian Dennison), who has been in and out of foster homes since he was a baby. The child services agent drops him off at his aunt's house in the middle of the New Zealand jungle and tells her that Ricky is somewhat of a problem child. That doesn't phase her much, as Ricky settles in to his new home in the wilderness, complete with his basketball sneakers, name-brand hoodie and flashy baseball cap.
His aunt Bella (Rima Te Wiata), is a fantastic person who tells it like it is and is blunt- in-your-face. She even makes jokes at Ricky's size, but it's done in such a fashion that it really is a term of endearment. Her husband on the other hand, Hector (Sam Neill) is the opposite of Ricky. Hector is a real outdoorsman type who doesn't talk much and knows how to handle himself in the woods. After an accident, Hector and Ricky must learn to get along, but when the child protective services come back to get Ricky, the due head off into the wilderness, so that Ricky won't have to go back to foster homes or worse – juvie.
Hector teaches Ricky (who fancies himself a wannabe gangsta) how to live in the woods, which comes with great laughs, when Ricky's only goal in life is to find toilet paper. Eventually the police and even the military start looking for Hector and Ricky after months of living in the wilderness, but the two come to bond and realize they need each other to express their feelings and loneliness. There are great quips of comedy n the vein of Wes Anderson and Edgar Wright here, as Hector and Ricky come across some interesting people in the wilderness, but there is also some dramatic moments here too, where the two try to express their past sadness in the form of funny haikus.
There is an action set piece here as well, which I'm sure scored Waititi the 'Thor 3' job, and after seeing this film, he is more than capable of making the best 'Thor' film or even Marvel movie thus far. The performances by Sam Neill and Julian Dennison are phenomenal. They have such a good and hilarious chemistry and are very real people without ever getting too sappy or over-the-top, which we can thank Waititi's screenplay and direction for that. There are some excellent movie references and a ton of heart and soul into this film that make 'Hunt for the Wilderpeople' one of the BEST films in a long long time.
MUST-SEE
A kids' movie for adults, or an adults' movie for kids
"The Hunt for the Wilderpeople" is a strange bird. It's part black comedy about two people who are tragically misunderstood by society, and part kids' wish fulfillment fantasy. It seems to shoot itself in the foot by being too ridiculous, too much a party to the fantasies of children to be taken seriously as an adult movie, and is too potty mouthed for many parents to find it suitable viewing for their kids.
Ricky is an overweight Maori boy who is at the end of the line with child services. He has, apparently, been through many foster homes and orphanages, and his next stop will be young people's jail, if his latest posting doesn't work out.
The menacing youth worker who delivers him to his new home reels off a litany of offenses he has supposedly committed, including vandalism and thievery. She speaks like she's incanting a protection spell against the boy. He doesn't say much, and dresses and walks like every young thug you've ever seen.
He isn't, though, and you start to wonder what this youth worker's deal is. She compares herself to the terminator in a comparison that is too fitting. This is not an accurate depiction of people who work in social services, and you wonder why they went so far making her into an unfeeling, inhuman villain. Were they that desperate for a bad guy?
The movie forgets, very very quickly, that Ricky was supposed to be a problem child. He's a dream: clever, polite, obedient, thoughtful. The only bad behaviour we see if his running away, which is not really an issue as his foster family live in the bush; he can't get far.
Anyway, Ricky and his adopted "uncle", Hector, played by Sam Neill, end up on the run when Ricky attempts to live in the bush, and Hector comes to find him. It is assumed Hector has kidnapped the boy.
The movie from then on out is sporadically entertaining, and mostly fits into a familiar kids' movie template about the tough guy with the heart of gold and the streetwise, misfit kid learning to trust each other.
The movie approaches making its likable lead, the small, round, Ricky, a believable character, but with details like a late-movie car chase – in which he shows driving skills Mario Andretti probably couldn't rival – you are reminded of the movie's split personality.
Engaging
I didn't really expect much out of this, but I did figure it would be a sweet and endearing adventure story that places a great emphasis on family and the bonds that are created. It's predictable for the most part (except a development that occurs in the first act that caught me by surprise, but that sets in motion the rest of the film). The acting is very good. Julian Dennison is very charming and very fitting for the role, with just the right amount of likability and fierceness to really make his character's progression believable. Sam Neill is also pretty fantastic. It's a very safe role and very obvious in its intent, but it works. Overall, a sweet and charming film that although not great does get its job done.
Really funny
This film was a pleasant surprise and was full of unexpected twists and some hilarious quirky humour. My favourite character was the woman who adopted Ricky Baker at the start of the film. Her Happy Birthday Ricky Baker song was the highlight of the film for me. The kid playing Ricky Baker is excellent too and delivers his lines with perfect comic timing. The female parole officer who thinks she's the Terminator and he's Sarah Connor is hilarious too. The only parts of the film I didn't like were the sad parts, which either didn't make me feel as sad as I was supposed to, or just felt a little mean spirited. Overall this is a very funny, unique and original film.
Charming, funny and heart warming film from New Zealand
Riccy is a problem child – having been given up by his birth mother he has ping ponged from care to foster homes all his short life. Then he is accepted by a larger than life woman in the shape of Bella. She is wed to curmudgeonly old Hec – (Sam Neil) who is less than impressed with the new arrival.
Life has a way of throwing the unexpected at us and so it does here resulting in Hec and Riccy sort of going into the Bush but being pursued by an over zealous child care officer and what looks like half the police in new Zealand – what unfolds is a funny and moving story that will hopefully warm the cockles of your heart.
I really enjoyed this – it is one of those films where you can just sit back and enjoy. Everyone is great and little Julian Denison as Riccy was superb. This sort of works for the whole family too so pretty much gets to tick all the boxes – completely recommended.
That Score is just a marvel.
When a boy and his foster Uncle, (Sam Neill) go missing, there is a nation wide manhunt to track them through the New Zealand Bush. This is a real wacky movie, that at times is so weird, and at others times has heart. Young Julian Dennison is hilarious, and does such a fantastic job for a child actor, his accent and his attitude just cracked me up. He is also paired well with Sam Neill. Two completely different kind of people come together to form a bond, that plays well on film. And the score for this movie is so out there, it is so weird and quirky, and yet somehow marvellous at the same time. It's worth watching just to listen to the score, it's a little Tarantino esque. This is a real stand out for Director Taika Waititi, I think he has done New Zealand proud. I found the movie enjoyable, quirky and quite funny at times. Though maybe not for everyone, I would recommend seeing it. Hunt for the Wilderpeople #huntforthewilderpeople
3 out of 3 found this helpful. Was this review helpful? Sign in to vote.
A Downright Hilarious, Endlessly Entertaining & Delightfully Heartwarming Kiwi Surprise
A rollicking ride that's jam-packed with idiosyncratic characters & distinct Kiwi humour, Taika Waititi's Hunt for the Wilderpeople is a downright hilarious, endlessly entertaining & delightfully heartwarming adventure comedy that's affectionately crafted, exquisitely witted & brilliantly performed from start to finish, and is a wholehearted, poignant & genuinely rib-tickling comedy that, in all likelihood, is the funniest film of the year.
"Stay Maori, bro!"; or, "Who ate the guy who ate all those pies?"
I'm tempted to pitch this one as an updated, Kiwi version of "True Grit" (willful teenager joins forces with elderly badass on wilderness quest...). Julian Dennison is adorable as Ricky, a wayward city kid who's spent his life in foster care. With his thirteenth birthday approaching, he's almost aged out of the system, so when his last-chance placement on a hardscrabble farm falls through, he lights out for the bush---not the moors and mountains of LotR fame, but a trackless upland forest infested with feral hogs---rather than chance the dreaded juvie. After a couple of ingenious, almost plausible plot twists, he ends up on the lam with his soon-to-be-ex--foster parent, Hec (pron. "Hick"; a perfect part for Sam Neill), pursued by tac units in body armor, vengeful bounty hunters and a Javertlike social worker with scary eyebrows
The odd-couple dynamic of the mouthy Ricky in his flashy "skux" gear and the taciturn bushman is hard to resist. (Skux = Kiwi for playa or gangsta, depending on context.) It's formula stuff, to be sure, but the script's a lot tighter than Taika Waititi's previous efforts like "Boy" and "What We Do in the Shadows" (did that one even have a script?), and the film builds up some real "Thelma and Louise" momentum as the popo close in on the outlaw duo. Great locations, great soundtrack, great performances---Rhys Darby ("Flight of the Conchords") has a dorky cameo as a crazed backwoods hermit that breaks the spell for a while, but otherwise it's all good.
Bad Taste
Has a negative feel due to it's negative content, violence to animals and just plain human coarseness, a waste of time and money. Trash. Why cant New Zealanders raise the bar and make an uplifting movie and show the better side of humans. The supposed humour in this film is relegated to low brow comments you would expect from a mean teenage bully, not adults. New Zealand is a beautiful country and makes for nice viewing it's just a shame the characters don't measure up to the same level, not all New Zealanders are this coarse but I guess this is how the world will come to think of the people, it's high time New Zealand made a decent movie without violence and the usual trash talk and put downs. NZers please make something Noble and uplifting!
Hunt for the Wilderpeople
"Hunt for the Wilderpeople" is a wonderful family comedy film, and I don't use the word "family" lightly. When most hear the word "family" applied to movies, it means the film is pandering to children, although I honestly believe anybody could watch this movie and enjoy it. The film deals with mature concepts of loss, loneliness, etc., and it does have some more serious moments, but the film never betrays its fun and lighthearted tone throughout; it never takes itself too seriously.
Ricky is a mischievous child who has never had parents or any other sort of guardian for that matter. The parents he is given to are Hector and Bella, although the only one that really wants him there is Bella. While at first he is rebellious as always, he soon realizes that his loving guardian is all he really needed, and he starts to appreciate her. Hector, on the other hand, doesn't care much for Ricky. In fact, all he really wants is for Ricky to leave him alone. It seems the only thing either of these two characters have in common is that the only person they have is Bella.
The film is fast paced and stylistically directed, and also genuinely funny and heartfelt, with great characters and great performances by the actors portraying them. In fact, it had me actually laughing out loud even while watching it alone, which is a pretty rare achievement. The film is directed with a playful tone, almost as if the audience is experiencing these events from the perspective of Ricky. What the film is really about is the bond that slowly forms between Ricky and Hector. Together they deal with change and loss, and eventually form a genuine friendship. Ultimately, both of them needed each other, even if they didn't realize it at first.
Street humor, the New Zealand countryside and a heartfelt story make for another success from Taika Waititi
Movie_Muse_Reviews21 December 2016New Zealand filmmaker Taika Waititi is making the funniest films you haven't heard of. 2014's "What We Do in the Shadows" was a brilliantly conceptualized and cleverly executed mockumentary depicting vampires as people with ordinary problems, and "Hunt for the Wilderpeople" is a surprisingly endearing "unlikely relationship" comedy.
Waititi's gift is deadpan, awkward humor. He finds ways to tether larger-than-life situations and improbable scenarios to very simple and relatable notions, allowing him to build big stories that never lose their grip on reality. So often in "Wilderpeople," you forget just how preposterous the whole thing really is.
The film begins with as commonplace a setup as any: a troubled 13- year-old foster child named Ricky (Julian Dennison) is adopted by a couple living in the New Zealand "bush," or countryside. Things take a turn, however, when Ricky runs away into the wilderness. His foster "uncle" (Sam Neill) finds him, but their disappearance causes a massive public manhunt.
What ensues is a goose chase of sorts that forces an awkward urban teen into hip-hop together with a soft-spoken Crocodile Dundee-esque curmudgeon, all of which is set against a picturesque New Zealand backdrop.
In some ways, "Wilderpeople" is just another story about a child and an adult who want nothing to do with one another becoming unlikely friends, only this one's got a lot of gorgeous and lush scenery. Although Waititi takes several moments out of the film for landscape shots (some echoing "Lord of the Rings," frankly), nothing about the setting feels particularly essential to the story other than serving to make it more unique.
It's a small hollow patch, however, in a film that's about belonging at its core. Waititi creates these two separate notions, one of being an outlaw and alone versus togetherness, companionship and playing by the rules. He simply has it all play out under entertaining and visually interesting circumstances.
The cast is outstanding. Dennison's humor is reminiscent of Rebel Wilson (though it could be the similarity in stature and accent) and Neill plays off him extremely well in situations that are humorous, dramatic and dangerous. The surrounding cast also has terrific comedy instincts including Rima Te Wiata, Rachel House and a last- minute cameo by Waititi regular Rhys Darby.
If nothing else, "Wilderpeople" will win fans for Waititi's application of modern, street-wise humor (Ricky names his dog Tupac) to a rural setting, which creates a humorous contradiction that just works, probably because Waititi doesn't force it. When Ricky says "$&*% just got real" with a hunting rifle in hand, it pretty much sums up why the movie is hilarious.
For all the shenanigans sprinkled in, "Wilderpeople" never loses sight of who its characters are beneath the surface and what really matters to them. Waititi shoehorns in his awkward brand of humor the same way any comedic filmmaker would, but he keeps the relationship and themes at the core of story intact every which way he twists it. That ability is what makes his directing of the next "Thor" movie incredibly promising. If he can do what he does so well with a tent- pole budget and major studio demands, he won't be making the best comedies you've never heard of for long.
Thanks for reading! Visit Movie Muse Reviews for more
Amazingly Hilarious and surprisingly heartfelt
Hunt for the Wilderpeople is very heartfelt and at the same time hilarious. The chemistry between the two main characters is great and this is really just a very offbeat and different film. This is a case where a small film is done right, when you go to watch a low budget movie like this you would really be looking at the story and the acting as special effects and such wouldn't exactly be the most magnificent. The mains Ricky, and his foster uncle Hec were just so likable as a pair, thanks to the amazing performances while being very different from each other they were a great pairing with great chemistry.
Sam Neill was great in this film, I would say topping his performance in Jurassic Park, He had such an edge to him in this film yet his portrayal makes him so layered and relatable. Another great thing about the film.
The subtle comedy in this film, it does not rely on over the top acting or slapstick to achieve its great comedy. In hunt for the wilderpeople the really ordinary and subtle dialogs and trades are charmingly written and this is probably one of the biggest laughs I've had in the theater. I really enjoyed this movie.
And when this film hits with the emotions, they're not tear jerking moments but very under the skin and bitter moments. These moments that really allow viewers to relate are dished out through various aspects of the film.
I must say this film makes me very intrigued as to see how director Taika Waititi will present and portray the character of Thor in Thor: Ragnarok.
Maybe the best film of 2016
In the meanwhile, in the other part of Pacific Ocean, have been produced many films that they told us nothing. Nothing special. Nothing new. It was just another year of cinema in there... Special effects and fancy things... But this is not the cinema I use to call art.
Hunt for the Wilderpeople came out of nowhere for me. I randomly heard about it. And it was a "magestical" experience! It's been a long time since a film alternated, with so beautiful way, my feelings. I almost felt everything: burst into laughter, be touched, there's also a little bit of suspense! I totally enjoyed it!
Casting was marvelous! Every actor has chosen for a reason. And what about our protagonists? I enjoyed them! There was an interesting chemistry between a kid and an old man!
Locations were wonderful. And the cinematography was excellent! I suggest this movie.
lovely
Taika Waititi's Hunt For The Wilderpeople speaks to the lost boy in all of us, tweaks our sense of humour with subtle doses in all the right places, taking what could have been a familiar feeling story and sending it miles down the road less traveled, in terms of emotion, comedy, script and pacing. This film has the largest scope of any he has made so far, but it's purely for atmosphere; he remains steadfast in his need to explore what fascinates him the most: people. Their fears, desires, eccentricities and idiosyncrasies laid out bare and blunt, with none of the trademark gloss or cookie cutter cue card normalcy that so much writing has these days, clouding the potential for characters to feel genuine. They feel just that here though, and inhabit a world of harsh realities, unpredictable outcomes and organic, unforced interaction. Hell, even when his protagonists are vampires, they still feel far more lifelike than many a human character in film these days. The story is benign, until slowly kindled by all the elements I have just outlined. Child services, in the form of a tyrannical bitch (Rachel House), bring wayward boy Ricky (Julien Dennison, a wicked new talent) to stay with his new foster parents on a remote farm in rural New Zealand. The couple (Rima Ti Wiata and the legendary Sam Neill) couldn't be more different than the young lad. He's a hoodie wearing, rap rhetoric spewing, pop culture paintball gun of colloquial gibberish and big city malarkey. They are a withdrawn, earthy, isolated type of folk, content with farm life and each other's company. Ricky is a disruption which they both need, creating a mini culture clash that provides countless moments of amusement as we wade our way into the story. The aforementioned unpredictability strikes when Neill's wife passes away without buildup or ceremony, leaving him and a kid he barely knows, let alone likes, alone in the world. What follows is a touching, picturesque and endlessly funny glimpse at two people who are thrown into the thick of it together. These people are both lost in different ways; Ricky has never known a real family, tethered to nothing and set adrift among a sea of cyber role models and unreliable elders. Neil has just spent the majority of his life in a rock steady routine with his farmer's wife and clockwork existence, suddenly unmoored and left with not a clue how to proceed. The two are hilarious together, providing each other with bushels of character development and scene after scene of purely inspired, bona fide human interaction that feels so utterly, blessedly unforced. They're set among a slide show of breathtaking scenery, lively supporting work and attention to detail that adds up to quite the unforgettable package. If Waititi's latest is any indication of what's to come, lay down that red carpet runway post haste, because he'll continue to take us by storm
Going completely bind, without reading any reviews, is your best option.
This movie is really enjoyable. I recommend it entirely. If you disagree, fair is fair, but please watch this at least once. The kiwi humour and charm is one that is, and will always be, amazing.
The characters are well written, from the overpowered child support services, to the hunters searching, every character is fleshed out, and will leave you completely satisfied.
Another thing I should mention is the luscious environments of the NZ bush. They are gorgeous. Some of the most nature-filled shots of the film are enough to impress.
The movie is worth watching once. I myself have watched it at least three times, and have enjoyed it tremendously. This low budget gem is worth your time entirely.
3 out of 3 found this helpful. Was this review helpful? Sign in to vote.
Permalink
 10/10
call of the wild
lee_eisenberg28 November 2016
"Hunt for the Wilderpeople" is the first Taika Waititi movie that I've seen, and I'm impressed. This look at a Maori boy and his adoptive white father who go on the run in rural New Zealand is at once a look at the status of the Maoris and a look at New Zealand's landscape. One might interpret the characters' period in the wilderness as a way for the boy to connect to his heritage more (it certainly helps him bond with the adoptive father).
It's a really good movie. A particularly funny sequence is when Ricky and Hector stay with the man living off the grid (the next sequence seemed like a cross between "Mad Max" and "Thelma and Louise"). A fun time, but also a socially conscious one. This is one movie that deserves a lot of recognition. I hope that Taika Waititi makes more movies like this.
Taika Watiti is a genius
I was initially concerned about seeing this film because going to the cinema having forgotten your long distance specks can turn a fresh 2016 release into an 80s home video. It wasn't so bad though as I was the keeno in the front row and I didn't notice that the film was slightly fuzzy because of how relentlessly entertaining it was! There was something instantly inviting about the plot and the well curated quick shots, quirky style and humour had won me over within the first 5 mins. Taika Waititi continues to deliver the treat that is the dry kiwi sense of humour which was on tremendously high form and I was roaring with laughter at many points (causing a rather niche pain in my collar bone). This films style of humour is that winning combination of being both ludicrously silly and intelligently observant. The characterisation of tough yet quirky farm lady Bella will warm every ventricle of your heart! We only see her for the first 15 minutes of the film but in that small time frame we become very fond of her eccentricities, and the relatable familiarity that comes from the details in this brilliantly portrayed character. She is a refreshingly strong female who I feel I've been waiting so long to see depicted so triumphantly! Oh how I love a good old unlikely protagonist. The gorgeously rotund lead character Ricky was portrayed amazingly by Julian Dennison. The character was charming in his errors. He is written off at the start for being a useless foster home reject and then as the adventure unfolds develops a strength of character that retains and celebrates his differences at the end. The clash of contemporary trend in this movie with traditional raw hunting life was a fascinating feature of the film. Whenever there is modern references within a film it generally falls flat as a embarrassing bid to be accepted by young audiences, but this film tackled up to date references in a very switched on way! The film was a sarcastic adventure tale of an unlikely union between two of society's rejects one old and bitter the other young and naive which allowed for such poignant chances for the characters to learn from each other. The film definitely doesn't lack for moving moments and because of how successfully sensitive the film seemed to be in capturing the human condition through humour I just knew the film would expertly deliver on the inevitable emotional scene! (which yes defiantly stole a tear or two) I would definitely recommend this film if you are deficient in genius references, beautiful New Zealand landscapes, and some tear shed attributable to both laughter and mild sobbing. It is not one to be missed!
This child wants to be left behind
Hands on activities are always better for kids. Getting away from a desk and into the wilderness would be an effective way to foster problem solving skills in a child. What's more, real life problems yield better solutions than ones in book at a desk in a public school. These are ideals I agree with, even as a public school teacher myself.
This is a quirky and strange movie if you don't pour some sort of meaning into it. Early on, I had a meaning I got from it and that's why I think I enjoyed it so much. I'll tell you what it was, as long as you remember that movies are like all art: you get out what you perceive from it.
The evil social worker lady represented the restrictive educational policies of George Bush. They were called. as most will recall, "No Child Left Behind." She in fact repeats this phrase many times as her battle cry to find the protagonist. It's also derived from the bumper sticker wisdom: "All who wander are not lost."
This film looks a lot like Moonrise Kingdom in its silliness and campy presentation. Some will find humor in that alone. A preteen juvenile delinquent keeps escaping from school and eventually, after his caretaker aunt dies, he goes on a wilderness expedition with his "step-uncle." A bunch of stuff happens, some interesting, some funny, some dull. At any rate, it becomes another aphorism: "Life is a journey." It's made to show how much more this child gets out of surviving with his uncle than he would in public school, or the juvenile correctional system anyway. The actors are all speaking in Australian accents which makes it seem like an independent film (which in fact it is).
If you're willing to sit through a whole movie of goofiness to see this director's point about open and unbridled education, you'll probably laugh a lot. I've seen better quirkiness like this in the film Nacho Libre. That's also about an underdog who emerges victorious  and the jokes are funny. I'd recommend this film for fans of understated humor and who don't agree with restrictive educational policies. I'd say it will be liked six and one half-dozen the other by the general public.
a unique (in the correct sense of the word) comic discovery!
Hunt for the Wilderpeople, about a 13 year old runt who thinks he's a gangster (or, actually, uses other slang words for it that few of us will actually understand) and, not wanting to go back to foster care and likely Juvenile Prison after his foster mother dies suddenly (also Sam Neill's character Faulkner's wife) and runs away into the New Zealand 'bush'/woods, with this old man following along to make sure he isn't eaten alive or whatnot and a manhunt via Child Protective Services and a damn swat team, reminds me... movies need more Sam Neill paired with good kid actors.
And actually this one, Julian Dennison, is so good at making this character both a laugh riot and a genuinely feeling human being and not someone who is a total caricature (only sometimes), makes it for this not too arguably featuring the better kid than Jurassic Park. Writer/director Taika Waititi (his name even sounds like an unlikely cocktail) is pretty easily the best director NZ has given the world since Peter Jackson.
This is a film loaded with boundless visual and creative imagination, and tone that shows a distinct voice - if you saw What We Do in the Shadows, his spoof on vampire cinematic lore and reality shows, that was seeing one side of his talents (also as an actor), and this shows that he has an ambitious reach into showing dynamic, three-dimensional characters and a story that keeps the comedy going, usually in ways that make the filmmaking *itself* funny (it wouldn't surprise me to find out, for example, Edgar Wright's a fan of this), while never losing a strong dramatic and even tragic backbone. The stakes in here counts, and we believe in the world, so the comedy comes from part of a reaction to the madness that comes.
Really the only thing keeping this wholly charming and frequently wall-shattering-from-the-vibrations-from-my-laughter funny comedy from quite the masterpiece height of WWDITS is that the Child Welfare character, Rachel House I think (while certainly given her all) is too one-note, which wouldn't be an issue if Faulkner and Baker weren't so developed so well.
A truly unique vision that is not shy of getting grandiose with its visual technical sweep or for bringing an eclectic soundtrack that could be my favorite of the year, its one more notch in the quality belt for a filmmaker now tasked with...... Thor 3..... Uh, sure, why the hell not? Get some comic humanity with those Gods!
A massive crowd-pleaser in the international festival circuit from Kiwi country
HUNT FOR THE WILDERPEOPLE taps into the universally viable prescription of an odd-pair adventure, a tubby juvenile delinquent Ricky Baker (Dennison) is sent to a new foster home in a rustic land by child welfare services, he is welcome by the heart-of-gold Maori woman Bella (Te Wiata), yet Bella's shaggy and grumpy husband Hec (Neill) doesn't seem to warm up to him. Ricky's escape attempt is thwarted by the place's unique topography, a remote house in the middle of nowhere adjunct to a green expanse of forests. And his resistance begin to thaw when aunt Bella's all-embracing maternal care overcomes a boy's innate defensive mechanism.
But good time doesn't linger, he and Hec are bereft when Bella drops dead out of the blue, and under pain of being transferred to a juvenile prison on account of that there will be no more foster homes available, Ricky fakes his death by setting the barn alight and heads to the forest with Bella' ashes, which he intends to scatter in the place closer to the sky just as Bella wished. Strayed in the wilderness, Ricky encounters Hec, who is looking for him. But, finally, they embark on a months- long living-in-the-woods fleeing while being subjected as the target of a national manhunt, insisted by the relentless welfare services officer Paula (House, hams herself up in caricature, "no one is left alone").
Waititi is aptly conversant with all the ropes, in the duo's solitary journey, inevitably both will open their hearts and comes to terms with each other (Hec is an illiterate with a manslaughter past, and Ricky is highly haiku-dependent), subsequently a heartfelt mutual understanding and rapport registers itself and ultimately, the blasé but none-too-mawkish father-son bond that transcends blood lineage and overcome even the most skeptical onlooker. En route, they come face to face with forbidding threats (both from fellow humans and wildlife), but heartwarming greetings also episodically arise: an extra friendly Maori family where Ricky entrains a ritualistic admiration of Kahu (Ngatai-Melbourne), a girl of his age, and a zany hermit living in the wild, Psycho Sam, played by Rhys Darby with a scene-stealing offbeat exultation.
Waititi knowingly plays up the scenery-porn of New Zealand's otherworldly terrain and its lush flora and fauna, together with an ethnic and eclectic soundtrack, but pulls punches with the harsh reality of how to survive in the nature, for example, it is sheer inexplicable that our hero can keep his chubby figure unaltered after all his tribulations, which tallies with Waititi's precept of downplaying anything (death, funeral, ash-scattering and a malicious sniper) that would hinder its cardinal quirkiness and light-heartedness. Many film references are being felicitously inserted, from one-liners of THE LORD OF THE RINGS and TERMINATOR franchises, to the faux-THELMA & LOUISE (1991), over-elaborate climax.
Under Waititi's Wes Anderson-like fabrication of a feel-good fairy-tale, newcomer Julian Dennison gives a properly scintillating child performance, sometimes precocious, sometimes wide-eyed, but never rubs the audience up in the wrong way (although the self-conscious patter to the three gormless hunters detailing what they do in the woods is quite a stretch for him to pull off). Sam Neill, magnanimously saves much spotlight for his inexperienced co-star but sends off a pulsating vibe as a man who is completely at ease with his self-effacement. Last but not the least, a wonderful Rima Te Wiata radiates splendid affability and effervescence which affectingly provokes a tang of loss when her screen-time is due, and prompts us wonder would it be nice if it were an aunt-and-boy venture. Woefully, under the sexist climate, that would never be green-lit for an obvious reason
Ricky is a delinquent boy that was adopted by family that lives in wildness of New Zeland and as their lives are turned around they found themselves on a run from everybody. Introduction into characters is amazingly funny and keeps the light touch on everybody but as Bella dies it is obvious their lives just went down. Ricky gets on run from everybody and not long has passed he starts to feel deprived and lonely but Hec shows up and now they are both on run from police and child welfare. Their survival is funny, they find themselves in rather difficult situations and lost a lot in the way. It is obvious that they become good and their mission continues easily but after a long period of running Hec feels tired and just wants to end all so he could live a little bit normal. There are some scenes in the movie that feel ridiculous and easily solved, for instance when they are in the car and being chased by bunch of vehicles and helicopters it was probably one scene that doesn't quite fit in the movie. Also there are couple of scenes that just feel thrown in there without explanation. There are also Paula a child welfare worker, her character is probably most annoying and boring as well dull and stupidest and least funny character in whole movie. Movie has some of the great scenes shoot and incredible cinematography and comedic aspect that keeps it light but reminds you always that it's a story of escaping from reality. Sam and Julian are incredible in the movie as they try to keep each other but with mixed emotions and slowly becoming a great friends. Finally at the end you see product of the movies character forming and how they understand each other. 3.5/4
He finally found his place, and now it's in jeopardy!
The fourth feature film for the Kiwi director Taika Waititi. I loved all his films except the previous one, despite it was a famous title that the world loved, I'm not. So according to me this is a great comeback after a cheap vampire mockumentary. I was very confident that this would take up the New Zealand's the Oscars slot and then disappointed to find it was not in the initial list released by the Academy. Anyway, it does not need a tag like that, it is really an awesome film for everyone, though the theme has some adult contents in an indirect manner and violence like killing the wild animals. That means still it can be watched by kids with their parents' consent.
Watching it takes you to the location live, so you don't want to end your vacation in the beautiful New Zealand wilderness which feels like untouched. It was nothing like you have seen in 'The Lord of the Rings' that altered with the computer tricks. This is raw and beautiful like the Tasmanian jungle from 'The Hunter'.
This is the story of an orphan boy named Ricky Baker, who is a troublesome. Finally a family from the remote place adopts him where with the initial hiccups, he started to get used to it. But after one of the members dies in his new family, the child service wants him back. This is where it all begins, because he finally found a place where he belongs, but they are trying to take it away from him. So he launches his protest that comes from a mistake which later becomes a national news. What's going to happen to him and the others around him told in the remaining part.
"Sometimes in life it seems like there's no way out. Like a sheep trapped in a maze designed by wolves."
Seems Ricky is obsessed with the films. He always talks about them and compares his actual state of condition to the different films he had seen and admired. Especially about the gangsters, I think that's why he became so rebellious, apart from his struggles in the orphanage. This film was based on the book called 'Wild Pork and Watercress' and I praise the author for creating a character like Ricky. As usual the screenplay by Taika Waititi was amazing. Not without the support from his crew and especially the actors like who played Ricky. So was the Sam Neill in an important role.
First of all it is a fun film, despite whatever they have shown in this like about the feud between the child service and the kid. The film kind of looks like Wes Anderson's 'Moonrise Kingdom' without his signature. Except the initiation, what follows is quite aimless plot. So, not easy to predict the scenes, but somewhat we come to know the ending. It has to conclude either way, like happy or sad ending, or maybe both. But the overall film keeps us in the guessing mode, providing some laughs and thorough good entertainment.
It's really an appealing title and so the equally satisfying film. Especially if you like wild and green landscape, you should not miss it. The story was told in chapters which actually did not require, but those slices were helped to understand each section and its focus. I think it was a direct influence from the original source.
The director is now on a big leap, doing a superhero film in the Hollywood. The third 'Thor' film, that reunites him with Sam Neill for the second consecutive time. I'm waiting for that which is going to be a visual extravaganza. He has done great with smaller films till now, which are mostly the comedies, but what comes is his biggest challenge so far and if he does pull it off successfully, he would be another Kiwi director in the big league after Peter Jackson. Praying to happen that. In the meantime, I recommend you to check this one out.
A Wild Bore
Hunt for the Wilderpeople is dumb from beginning to end. For starters, the child protagonist is still just as obese after 4 or more months in wilderness survival mode. Maybe the director thought that was absurdist humor, but I thought it was just stupid, and even felt angry that the director would use the boy's obesity as a comedy vehicle. The acting of the woman who plays that Social Services woman is atrocious. Sam Neill acts like he wishes he were somewhere else. The writing is poor. The film is rarely funny...too many flat gags and witty exchanges that are not witty. Much does not ring true about this film, from stilted conversation to contrived, silly scenarios that wouldn't even be charming in a fantasyland. Clichés abound, like the wild boar being shot by the boy just before it attacks then plopping down dead right in front of him. There's even an American-style car chase with a police car flipping over. Loved the New Zealand landscape though, and since it is ever-present throughout the film, and because I liked Rhys Darby's performance as Psycho Sam, I give Hunt for the Wilderpeople 5 stars.
Enjoyable and pulls the right strings
I have quite liked all the quirky Kiwi films I've seen so far. Albeit these few were hilarious black humour horror films made many years ago. (seek them out as Easter eggs).
As an Aussie recently moved to NZ I have had the opportunity to experience the national psyche, raw and unfiltered. I'm beginning to understand how the mismatch of so many high profile invading cultures and turbulent history effects the population of these small islands and generally accounts for the way Kiwis express themselves. "The Wilderpeople" really showcases the 'trying on' of the unduly prevalent external values which are reflected by the youth demographic in the film.
I 'get' the Kiwi sense of humour and can appreciate our differences. We both have the ability to chuck off at ourselves in an exaggerated way without worrying too much about how we are being perceived by others. True, some members of both our societies will resent being portrayed this way but, broadly speaking, what you see is pretty much what you get, and we are both plainly speaking cultures.
But as much as this film is an opportunity to dissect a culture flooded with American and British influences, let me discuss the film itself for the benefit of the casual viewer.
The way the film continues to entertain, without bogging down in some very weighty issues, is impressive. The death scene for instance is both heart rending and deeply pivotal to the plot but doesn't slow the pace nor does it chase down a boring formulaic path.
The deeply self-involved man doesn't suddenly become a loving father figure. The boy doesn't become grief stricken or withdrawn. There's a sense of honesty that tags along with the (inappropriate) humour and the pacing ensures we are kept interested and involved throughout.
A fun film that shouldn't be taken too seriously. The unlikely ending wraps the film up with cartoon-like efficiency. Good for kids and adults alike.
"Majestical"
Sometimes you really need a movie like this one. Its nearly my first review. Just couldn't resist writing one. This movie is a perfect blend of drama, comedy, and adventure. A peculiarly beautiful story with an breathtaking landscape that makes you want to dive into that "majestical" world. New Zealand is in my to-travel list, thanks to the Hunt for the Wilderpeople. Acting is very good and screenplay is very well written, but it's the cinematography that steals the show. A great job by Lachlan Milne Acs, you can't help noticing it. Plus soundtrack has one of the sweetest songs. It is a family movie. I definitely recommend this.
didn't and wasn't expecting much from this movie. boy...was i wrong. one of my favorites of this year or any year. the movie made me laugh..out loud to...no lame jokes or body fluid jokes...real comedy here. it made me feel sad...the movie will bring out every emotion. invigorated me after watching the movie...its a gem...movies like this don't come along every year. if you get a chance to watch this movie....please do...you'll not be regretting it. good to see sam neil in a good movie again....haven't seen much of him lately. don't know much about the director except that he's the director for thor 3....but based on the viewing of this movie alone, will go back and check out some of his previous work too.
Truly superb film
Just when I thought the race for the best film of the year was over before it had begun with Room blowing me away at the very start of the year, along came this absolute gem. This was superb in every possible way. It looked beautiful, the story was touching, thought provoking and so so funny. The characters were well realised and even though some of those on the fringe were caricatures, all felt that they were real people. I can give this no higher praise than this is up there if not better than the best of Wes Andersons oeuvre. The two leads are superb with young Dennison fantastic but I absolutely loved Neill as the grumpy reluctant "Uncle", but even the most minor of supporting characters were well realised. The film perfectly balances a bit of sentimentality with hard nosed reality, and the fact that fact these elements sometimes can jar up against each other, just as in in life.
I chose this movie because it is 8/10 on IMDb with 18,000+ votes and consistently good user reviews.
Now that I've watched the movie there is obvious bias across most of the reviews. You'll see review titles like: "I find it impossible to fault", and "Perfectly Beautiful and Hilarious" nope nope nope.
I watched this movie and it was not that funny. There are no parts that I laughed, only some smiles at cute moments.
I lost interest many times. Acting was terrible at times, weak plot. many many actions were unjustified.
Refreshing
Watch it , its a nice unusual and original picture and when you get to the first boring moment just hold it a bit longer because the remaining part of the film will surprise you . Im happy to see Sam Neil playing this role in the movie and i think the role couldn't have been casted better , its spot on . I always welcome these kind of unusual movies because you can clearly see that the people who have been working on it like their jobs and are not making it only for the money.I admit that some parts of the film could have been scripted a little better , i had a couple of boring moments here and there but boy oh boy it doesn't really matter because the whole movie is a real gem.
Funny, smart: feel-good comedy of the year!
Congratulations to the team that made this movie. It's genuinely funny (i had a few laugh-out-loud moments, and i'm not the kind of person who has much of them), and also capable of make you feel about the characters. Speaking about them, Sam Neill delivers a very believable and moving performance. The kid is brilliant also (in one of his scenes he made me almost choke in laughter bi just saying 'what?'). The movie starts slow but gains pace throughout and never loses it. If I would describe the movie, it's a tale about two guys who live excluded from society and discover together the concept of family and partnership. Watch it with you friends, girlfriend, parents, anybody. This is a film for everybody. Gonna watch it again for sure.
Family movie with wilder life
I will be so disappointed if this incredible film doesn't win a prize! It made me laugh so hard. Taika Waititi is starting to make some real waves in the film making industry. It's as simple as this - every film he makes, people like simple. I like this movie.
Ricky Baker (Dennison), a defiant young city kid. He is sent by child welfare services to live in the country with foster mother Aunt Bella and her husband. . When Bella suddenly passes away and child services decide to take Ricky back to a care home, Ricky runs away into the bush with Uncle Hec in forest. Child services arrive to the farm and find out the house empty and the barn burnt down. After four months of surviving in the wilderness, the authorities finally corner the two. Hec gets in jail and Ricky sent to juvy. In the end,Hec's release from jail, Ricky, with his new foster family's permission.
Worth the hunt
"Hunt for the Wilderpeople" is a marvelous new movie from New Zealand and it sure makes you want to see more from writer/director Taika Wiatiti. It's a sweet and enjoyable film from start to finish and the young star of the film and veteran Sam Neill are a joy to watch together throughout the movie.
When the film begins, a very strange social worker, Paula, brings Ricky (Julian Dennison) to live in yet another foster home. The kid is angry and a mess and yet somehow Bella makes the boy feel loved and all is well...until Bella soon unexpectedly drops dead. Her husband, Hec (Sam Neill), isn't thrilled with keeping the kid and has every intention of returning the kid to Paula. However, before he can do this, the kid disappears...off to live the 'thug life' in the New Zealand bush! As for Hec, he makes the fateful mistake of following after the boy. Why is this so bad? Well, after finding Ricky, Hec falls and shatters his leg and they are now in the middle of nowhere and are forced to camp out and live off the land. In the meantime, Paula alerts the police and soon there's a nationwide dragnet to find the boy...and folks all believe Hec is some sicko who's kidnapped the kid! So, when they finally return, they are nearly killed by angry idiots and they are forced, once again, to return to the countryside. Wht will ever happen with this oddly mismatched pair?
If the plot sounds familiar, it's actually very much like a live action version of "Up"...with a few changes of course. There's the dead wife, the grouchy old man, the needy kid and their eventual search for a supposedly extinct bird...all familiar "Up" elements. But it works as well because there are some lovely differences...and instead of schmaltz and sentiment, the film relies on the kid being a cute little budding sociopath as well as some wonderful dialog by all the characters. Well worth seeing, lots of fun and a great look one of the most beautiful countries I have ever visited. Additionally, in Hunt for the Wilderpeople, look for the director in a bit part as the minister performing Bella's funeral...it's a very strange and funny scene.
Incidentally, if you enjoy this film, there are a few other great Kiwi films I strongly could recommend, such as "Once Were Warriors" and "Whale Rider". All three are excellent family films, though "Once Were Warriors" is definitely for an older and more adult audience (no pre-teens for this one).
Feels Like a Wes Anderson Knock Off
A young boy is fostered out to a New Zealand couple and then takes off into the wilderness with his foster father when the mother dies and the system demands that he be sent to a new home. The authorities with the help of some irksome locals begin a manhunt to bring the boy back.
"Hunt for the Wilderpeople" has its heart in the right place, and there are some genuinely funny moments in it, but it ultimately is just a little too aware of its own cleverness for my taste. Director Taika Waititi clearly owes a debt to Wes Anderson, as his film tries to capture the same sprightly whimsy that Anderson has practically trademarked. But that Anderson tone requires a delicate balance to maintain, and Anderson doesn't even always get it right. Waititi always feels like he's imitating rather than speaking through his own directorial voice.

Grade: B
There is only only one word to describe this film; MAJESTICAL!
I love Taika Waititi's brand of comedy; It is smart, effective, and most of all, it doesn't resort to sophomoric antics to make its audience laugh. There are few movies that effectively blend gut-busting comedy, heart-retching drama, and life-affirming tenderness as deftly as this film, and I found myself wondering why it took so long for me to watch this next great tale by one of the worlds leading film makers. The movie is equal blends comedy, coming-of-age story, drama, and thriller, and I was rapt with attention from beginning to very end. The film will make you smile, make you shed a few tears, will keep you in suspense, but most importantly, it will swell your heart and remind you that while the world is going to hell in a hand-basket, that there are some genuinely good people out there who do great things for each other. It's the kind of movie you watch and makes you hug the people you love afterwards. It's the kind of movie true film connoisseurs look forward to with baited breath. It's, without a doubt, one of the finest examples of film making in 2016. Exceptional in every possible way, it deserves to be seen by anyone who enjoys and cherishes great film making. A masterpiece.
Hilarious and utterly charming
I find it difficult to pitch this movie, because the plot does not sound all that exciting or fresh. But it is not the story that makes this a good movie, but the brilliant characters. The casting for Ricky Baker is either really good, or he got to shape his character into what we see on the screen. The same goes for Sam Neill's Hec, and the other characters they stumble upon in their journey. It's plainly a comedy, and they are not realistic in their behavior or dialogue, but it's all presented in a dead pan, understated way, similar to other New Zealand comedy, like the Flight of the Conchords.
At the same time, the movie does has some good, heartwarming character moments that feels surprisingly genuine. Coping with loss, accepting change, growing old, building relationships, all of this is touched upon in many (sometimes silly) ways.
All of it ads up to a very funny, charming and warm movie.
Refreshing indie
Love it... so many excellent quotes. i will be sure to see this again and probably after that. It's one of those unforgetables that you are compelled to repeat just in case you forgot something.. you know? "shit just got real!" It's so on the money with it's timing and humour besides the general storyline and landscape. There is the odd 8 percent that almost dips into "kids movie" but it's easily forgiven. I'm sure it was on purpose but Walkmans and Cadburys flake TV ads from the 80's so it has an element of timeless about it too. Humans who are currently kids and those that used to be can relate as one.. cool eh!? I'm sure there is more i can say but essentially it's watch this and tell your friend the world to watch it too. P.s Great writing, writer.
1 out of 2 found this helpful. Was this review helpful? Sign in to vote.
Permalink
Sort of a better version of "Moonrise Kingdom"
Great, Great, Great Movie
I had read nothing about this movie, and actually watched it by pressing the wrong button - I'm so glad I did.
The scenery is beautiful as is the cinematography which bring out the best in the New Zealand bush, its heart warming, a joy to watch and the acting is absolutely top notch especially by the two main starts of the film.
I cannot praise this movie highly enough, I enjoyed every single moment of it and it was such a surprise, the dialogue was witty and sharp and the storyline had you rooting for them both from the off - there should be more film's like this, lovingly crafted with unlikely hero's we can all relate to.
A near-perfect blend of comedy and drama fore Hunt for the Wilderpeople was even released, director Taika Waititi had been headhunted by Marvel Studios to helm what will be one of their biggest releases in 2017, Thor: Ragnarok. The talented writer, director and actor duly obliged, and will no doubt bring his unique brand of charm and laugh-out-loud humour to what has been tantalisingly described as an intergalactic road movie. His relocation to Hollywood helps bring a sense of bittersweet gravitas to Wilderpeople, almost as if he is waving goodbye to his beautiful New Zealand, smashing the opening weekend box-office in his native country in the process.
The film tells the story of Ricky Baker (Julian Dennison), an overweight orphan who dresses like the gangster rappers he frequently quotes who is placed in the care of foster parent 'Aunt' Bella (Rima Te Wiata). Bella lives in a remote cottage and welcomes the troubled child with open arms, switched on to exactly how to deal with Ricky's unique brand of rebellion. The same cannot be said for her husband Hec (Sam Neill), a grizzled frontiersman who we first meet emerging from the hills with a huge boar on his back. Hec has no time for Ricky, but when tragedy strikes, the child heads out into the wilderness to survive on his own. It doesn't take long for Hec to catch up to him, but when the huntsman is injured, the two are forced into spending a huge amount of time together, becoming wanted outlaws and local celebrities in the process.
Waititi's previous film, the cult vampire mockumentary What We Do in the Shadows, was complimented by its cast of talented comedic actors and surprisingly gory set-pieces. While Shadows was certainly a riot, it could be argued that it lacked heart. Wilderpeople certainly doesn't, and Waititi seems to have an uncanny ability to know just when to inject sentiment into a mix of memorable one- liners, bizarre supporting characters and pop culture references. A lot of this is down to the two central performances. Dennison proves to be one held of a find and the ever-reliable Neill is perfect as the grumpy foil who slowly and convincingly forms a bond with the child. Many of the laughs come from Ricky's childish naivety - when he sees the military and their sniffer dogs hunting them through the trees, he exclaims, "Ninjas! Direwolves! Child Services!"
There is also a fine performance from Rachel House as head of child services Paula, a grotesque woman who seems to have stepped out of the pages of a Roald Dahl book. Her motto is "no child left behind," but doesn't seem to grasp the meaning of the words as she takes her job far too seriously and leading the manhunt herself. While the film seems to slightly lose focus towards the Thelma and Louise- inspired climax, it never loses its heart. Adapted from Barry Crump's book Wild Pork and Watercress, Waititi's is clearly in love with the film's characters, as well as the beauty of the New Zealand wilderness. It's a near perfect combination of comedy and drama, knowing exactly the right time to switch gears. If Waititi can bring the same levels of charm and offbeat humour to his Thor movie next year, it will be one of the most intriguing movies of the year and a standout in Marvel's already-impressive track record.
Once in a lifetime film
A wild, hilarious, adventurous journey between an experienced old timer, and a young boy seeking thrills and treating the world like a game. Long story short, the non-animated version of UP.
Hunt for the Wilderpeople ( adapted Wild Pork and Watercress by Barry Crump) portrays the journey of Ricky Baker, (Julian Dennison) a no good bad egg who has been passed from home to home, but has finally puts him with animal skinning country couple Bella (Rima Te Wiata) and Heck (Sam Neil) or informally known as Auntie and Uncle. But after events unravel, we find Ricky goes on a wilderness journey with Uncle and the pair become the most wanted in New Zealand being pursued by child welfare, and various SWAT teams.
Taika Waititi, one of the masterminds behind What we do in the Shadows, and the artist currently working on the upcoming THOR Ragnarok, takes us on a marvellous experience into the nonsensical world in New Zealand of friendship, wilderness survival, and facing up against society. What enthrals the heart of the film is the nonstop laugh out loud humour that will have you without break, but also the touching bond formed between our two heroes Heck and Ricky.
What we have maintaining the strength of the film is the a ray of great performances especially by Dennison, and Neil as the two share wonderful chemistry while living in the wild. We engage with our characters in a familiar tone similar to the relationship between Carl Fredrickson and Russell as the two grow and live by the spirit of the 'knack' But hats off to the rest of the supporting cast especially by Rachael House portraying the fixated mad child welfare supporter 'NO CHILD LEFT BEHIND', along with her dim witted sidekick Andy (Oscar Kightley) and then also by the excellent highlight of the film Psycho Sam (Rhys Darby).
The film beautifully opens with a sublime Aerial shot of the majestic New Zealand forest, and only continues to deliver magnificent camera work by Lachlan Milne. The film holds and portrays an amazing style and atmosphere that is performed perfectly by the editing used throughout the film and superb soundtrack. Especially one montage featuring Sinner Man by Nina Simone.
What Hunt for the Wilderpeople is, is not really clear as it is itself something new and unique among any other comedy adventure film, with its own original atmosphere, but is a great fun time and awesomely executed film with barrels and barrels of laughter. Hunt for the Wilderpeople is a wonderful tale for all to enjoy but could be not everyone's cup of tea. 9.4/10
i liked it
i liked this film and i liked the boy acting he is very good and all the actors played their parts well.the events which happened.the idea of make film like story and chapters i liked this idea.A brilliant funny movie that still respects the sadness that happens in life.i understand something from this film we can do anything which we need but we should take a step and learning how to make that to make it and reach to what we need. i liked the boy when he go to Jungle like he wanted.i have a hope i can do what i need like the boy. this is one of those comedy movies, which doesn't give you a loud laugh but what it gives is a more satisfying smile.I'm amazed. I had great fun. watch it for a good time.
Hunt for the Skuxx People
You ever watch a film and just leave feeling warm inside? Between the gorgeous New Zealand scenery and the lovable banter between Ricky, played by Julian Dennison, and Hec, played by the always great Sam Neill, it's hard not to fall in love with this film. And that the fact that it doesn't get bogged down in some preachy message about "being yourself" this makes it my favorite "lost in the woods" film of the year so far. Overall it's a charming and funny film that makes you want to go live like an outlaw out in the bush of New Zealand.
Seriously, we could hunt boar and discover new birds. It'd be pretty skuxx.
Slightly twee
The Hunt for the Wilderpeople is a coming of age drama about Ricky (Julian Dennison) who is a foster child. He is placed with Hec (sam Neil) and Bella (Rima Te Wiata) by the child support agency. Ricky is fairly unresponsive and in many ways similar to uncle Hec. Auntie Bella is by far in a way the most energetic and happy as Ricky settles into his new life.
The movie focuses on the changes in Ricky as he is exposed to the challenges of life. The movie does have some faults such as the involvement of the child support agency which seems needlessly slapstick. Those scenes should really have been played straight and the movie would have been much improved. For the most part though it is a pretty entertaining movie.
Whoa! Its Majestical.
God! It has been a day since I watched the movie. But when I am in the elevator, in bus, while cooking or just sitting idle for a moment, the scene of vast green "bush" with those two running comes to mind like a replay!
This is precisely what mixed genre movies should be like and, well, sue me for saying, this is what is expected from a off-the-hook movie. Just wow! The minute details, little facial expressions, background scores, redundant angles, and what not; all of them put together so nicely that you can not weigh one down. Such a nice direction. And acting. The little fella would make you fall in love with him soon.
When the movie started with a chapter narrative, I thought, " Oh, its like The Grand Budapest Hotel." Indeed, rather in a better way, the story pacing and the relevance of the chapter titles are so perfectly engineered.
It is a movie which you might begin with "Well, lets see" and then towards the end, you would feel compelled to check how much time is left and then start feeling sorry that it would end soon.
If that's not the characteristics of a master piece, nothing else will ever be.
Sam Neill & Julian Dennison SOAR In This Delightful Adventure Comedy-Drama!
How often do we see a film that makes us cheer in our seats? Rare, right? Well then, to our luck, 'Hunt for the Wilderpeople' is one such film, that does exactly that. Funny, Touching & Charming, Taika Waititi delivers a Delightful Adventure Comedy-Drama, that is anchored with mesmerizing performances by Sam Neill & Julian Dennison.
'Hunt for the Wilderpeople' Synopsis: A national manhunt is ordered for a rebellious kid and his foster uncle who go missing in the wild New Zealand bush.
'Hunt for the Wilderpeople' is about freedom, love, adventure & ultimately, friendship. Though one might take the relationship between its central characters as father-son, this is actually a story on friendship in the wilderness. Taika Waititi's Screenplay, which is based on the book Wild Pork and Watercress by Barry Crump, is funny & filled with charm. The narrative is strongly constructed, offering moments of hilarity, amusement & sheer warmth. I was enthralled by the journey of these two unlikely men. Taika Waititi's Direction, on other-hand, is excellent. This man has a vision & we shouldn't expect anything lesser but madness from Thor: Ragnarok (his upcoming film).
Cinematography captures the wilderness & the emotions of its characters, magnificently. Editing is razor-crisp. Art & Costume Design are top-notch. Music by Various Artists, is wonderful.
Performance-Wise: Sam Neill and Julian Dennison are mesmerizing. Its such a pleasure to watch Neill in such great form after a hiatus. The veteran sinks his teeth into the part & brings it out with flying colors. This is his most effective performance in years. Julian Dennison is a miracle. He chews on the scenery & stands tall against Neill, never getting lost in the middle of a mighty veteran. He's absolutely terrific & creates an adorable character. I wouldn't be surprised if both of these scene-stealing performances get recognition in the awards-circuit next year. Of the supporting cast, Rima Te Wiata & Rachel House leave a strong impression.
On the whole, make time for 'Hunt for the Wilderpoeple'. Its completely worth it!
a different kind of funny
when i started watching this movie, i had very low expectations. but, by the end of the movie i was stunned. the movie merges the funny story telling with complex relationship dynamics. the character of Ricky was introduced like a stubborn ignorant kid who is always making troubles in the beginning but, how having a social relationship with a fellow human being can change even the most stubborn kid or the most stubborn old man was really fun to watch. The movie also captures the scenic beauty of the nature, locations are very precise to the nature of the movie and actors are also hilarious. there were a lot of funny circumstances and all of them seemed pretty natural, not like the comedies of these days in which they forcefully put a scene just there to be funny (which actually kills the fun). this is one of those comedy movies, which doesn't give you a loud laugh but what it gives is a more satisfying smile. watch it for a good time.
Joyful little film
This film just makes me happy. It is whimsical, clever, adventurous, cinematic, and a little unpredictable which makes it highly watchable. A no fail film. The actors are unassuming and they just grow on you as you find yourself becoming rather attached to them emotionally. Living in the US, it is refreshing to see scenery shot in New Zealand that is not mythological 'Lord of The Rings' style. There is something that is very honest about this film. It's been a few weeks since I watched this film in the theater and I find myself still thinking about it. A film is good if it sticks in your brain afterwords as a lingering good memory.
One thing many film & TV creators forget is; the most important part of any film is story. It's actually a relief seeing this put to practice by the likes of Taika Waititi (I always think of Rikki-Tikki-Tavi when I see his name written down, could have something to do with being dyslexic). Anyway! The lad has done it again. Great stuff!
There's truly not much more to say, other than; see this film it is good.
I should address the acting & stuff:
The acting is good. The film is sweet & funny. It's all put together well. It's not going to change the world but who wants to watch a film that's trying to do that? Furthermore! Who makes a film that's trying to do that; other than Nazis and other not-rights.
Well done to all involved.
Clearly Amateur but has a lot of heart
This movie is worth watching. The story could've gone a bit harder with the struggles of being a foster child. The main emotion here being used is anger. But when the child is alone, he doesn't seem upset in the least about his situation, only ever grumpy. It bothered me a little and the acting pulled me out of it a few times. I think the boy did a great job in the comedic and conversational parts, in fact the conversations seemed very real and you can see in some situations where Sam Neil wants to say more but looks like he doesn't know what to say. One thing I hate about amateur movies, I'm sorry if you don't see this as one but I do, is they put in scenes, take shots of things because they cost money and or put an actor in the spotlight, but they feel There are a few slightly lulling moments you might be bored by, but some real gems like the lord of the rings reference and some Rhys Darby moments you'll probably love. If you want an easy "running away from it all" movie, you'll be hard pressed to find one as good as this this year so far.
Don't believe the hype !
What a disappointment! I was expecting a quirky, but down to earth, charming drama with comedic elements and an engaging story to be enjoyed by young and old. The first 10 -15 minutes are overall promising but it is generally downhill from there. Initially I had no intention of seeing this film as the posters looked as if the film was essentially aimed at kids and it holds a 12A classification. In retrospect the publicity got it right! However, the reviews on IMDb, the comments, reputation of the writer/director and overall score of 8.3 convinced me otherwise. Unfortunately the story is formulaic and offered no originality on the central theme of a 'damaged' child who finds friendship and meaningful relationship with caring adults after various events. The acting at times was clunky from the central young character and other minor roles as was the dialogue on many occasions. The humour was derived from too many forced situations and the peripheral characters became increasingly unbelievable and the overall feel just juvenile and very childish. There were several incongruent bloody scenes involving animal slaughter which simply felt unnecessary when sitting along side the more silly story arcs. The scenery was indeed spectacular but the characters' placement on extreme peaks at times was totally unbelievable and done simply to showcase the background. The last 30 minutes became predictable, mawkish and there are a ridiculous series of events which are aimed at creating laughs at the expense of any credibility. I think this is an overall miss as the level of humour and plot could only be appreciated by uncritical 8 - 11 year old's who it is not primarily aimed at! This review may seem harsh but is needed to counterbalance all the OTT positive reviews whose motivation for such praise is perhaps questionable. It is a 6/10 but I have voted 5/10 to offer some counterbalance.
It was so bad that I have to complete just to write about it and warn others !!
I won't rate this a zero because I think the cast trying to do something but I'm not totally sure what is it , Once you're done watching this movie the next day you won't remember watching it at all , I feel sorry for them and I wish they'll do a better one in future with a better plot story , script , cast and everything else ... What makes me watch it is that high rated and reviews some of you guys made up or maybe got paid to do that and other movies and mess with the rating and I wish all movie sites could do rating system according to gender and user age similar to the one in IMDb which you can see where most voter comes from ,, for example : ( 2317 Males Aged 18-29 , 3830 Non-US users ) You'll know that rating according to whom and where exactly ? And won't be fooled over and over again ,, Yes I do waste my time watching this crab so don't you do the same and spare you're time for a better thing to do !
Not quite 'Majestical', but pretty close
Beautiful locales, a brilliant score and sound track, a host of funny,colorful characters that manage to stay on just the right side of the quirky-annoying line, an extraordinary sense of place, Sam Neil with all the gruff you can ask for and the funniest kid you have seen in movies in a long time.. This movie was damn near 'majestical' for much of its run-time :) An underwhelming climactic 'War' segment notwithstanding, this is still a blast with bucket-loads of charm and some crackling chemistry between the two leads played by Sam Neill and Julian Dennison (the kid). And if you are not grinning like an idiot by the end of this movie you (I am sorry to say this) are dead inside!
The ANZAC war is over, New Zealand wins
This movie goes to show just how capable New Zealand is at film making. With a solid cast, excellent writing and an ability to laugh at one self, the New Zealanders show the Australians how to make movies.
This movie kicks political correctness out the door. The female characters are as flawed as the male characters (yes, they occasionally make movies with flawed female characters these days), especially Rachel House (Paula) who is not afraid to show the ugly side of child support agencies in a light-hearted and very funny way. Sam Neill is good as Hec, but Julian Dennison (Ricky) does an even better job. Julian also performed superbly in Paper Aeroplanes (a politically correct but surprisingly good Australian movie). I would like to have seen more of Rima Te Wiata (Bella) who played a superb combination of tough, gentle and funny.
There are many funny moments in this film. There are very few scenes that insult anyone's intelligence, which is rare in a movie for kids. If I had to single out a forgettable character, it would be Rhys Darby (Psycho Sam).
If you are going to watch this film with kids, I would suggest it only suitable for children at least 10 years old. There is swearing and some surprisingly disturbing violence in the film. However, it's usually used to comic effect. However, if your child is sensitive, give this one a miss.
This movie reminds me of how backward Australian films have become. Congratulations to New Zealand for avoiding politically correct film making. By comparison, Tomorrow When the War Began was abysmal - but the John Marsden remake ticked many politically correct boxes and passed the bechdel test (which supposedly defines quality these days).
Well done New Zealand, well done.
An almost perfect film about growing up and growing old
Going to the theater and seeing a movie on the big screen can be such a magical experience, especially when watching a film as poignant and funny as "Hunt for the Wilderpeople". I had heard great things about the film and the reviews were mostly positive, but I just kept putting it off. When the last local cinema was clearly winding down its showings, I decided this was one I was not going to miss. I could not be happier with that decision. This is, hands down, the best movie I have seen this year.
This story is told in several chapters, each a unique experience. Ostensibly a coming of age story, "Hunt for the Wilderpeople" is also a perfect example of the pitfalls of social and professional media, that is, the inevitable distortion of fact. A so-called problem child, Ricky (Julian Dennison), finds a new home with a couple in rural New Zealand. The wife, Bella, is ready and willing to take on the challenge of a boy who is a difficult placement for Child Welfare Services. This may sound like a recipe for a bad film on the Hallmark Channel, but an excellent script, some brilliant acting, and outstanding cinematography brings this film to new heights, or like a lake that is closer to the gods.
This is not a realistic story. This is a story of pure fiction. I say this because some reviewers seem to think otherwise and were disappointed by the lack of realism. I don't know what to say other than perhaps it is time you got a new hobby. "Hunt for the Wilderpeople" is a lovely experience and with the overhead shots of the mountains of New Zealand, a breathtakingly beautiful experience too. I will be adding this one to the collection, and seeing as this is the second film of Waititi's that I have loved, will be adding him to my list of must see directors.
Truly Amazing
This film easily became the most best comedy film i have ever seen. I couldn't stop laughing due to the amazing performances from Juilan Denninson and Sam Neil. Really good film, great direction and screenplay. Julian Denninson is a great actor and i think he will go far in the future. Sam Neil was probably if not the best actor for the role he played and they couldn't of not picked a better actor for this film. As the film goes along due to the great performances you start to develop feelings for these characters and what they are feeling. It is a truly amazing film and its great for all ages and is definitely a good family film
The best film I saw in a decade
OK, I'm not living under a rock to give such a bombastic title. It most certainly is THE BEST film I saw in many years. Trumps Hollywood at every level imaginable. After initial shock of amazement, I also read a book. It is even better than a book because the melodramatics are stripped to a bare minimum, so the fun is not spoiled by it. It is there, but only just. Great intervention in a script. This film is fun. It is brave and sincere. Even Taika appears for a short role. It speaks of freedom and integrity in a way that it is also fun, but serious, and then fun again. It is easy to identify with the characters, although it is unlikely you'll ever even meet anyone with such lifestyle. In short - I'm amazed. I had great fun.
The Kid Doesn't Lose Weight?
I loved this movie. I had fun watching this movie. I thought some of it was really over the top and silly but all in all it was a fun buddy movie. But I have one complaint. The kid doesn't lose any weight. The kid is out there, in the wild, eating nothing but eels and rabbits and whatever else they can find, for six months or more, and he doesn't lose a pound of weight. He's just as obese at the start of the movie as he is and the end of the movie. Now I don't expect a child actor to do what Robert DeNiro did for Raging Bull, but come on, at least give him a girdle. At least try to create the illusion that he was out in the wild for six months living on nothing but roots and the carcasses of birds. That's really my only complaint about this film. Otherwise, enjoy.
A delightful, refreshing and heart-felt masterpiece.
SpoilerAlertReviews18 September 2016
New Zealand's acclaimed director, Taika Waititi does an adaptation of Barry Crump's novel, Wild Pork and Watercress, about a thirteen year rebellious, wannabe-gangster, Ricky Baker getting fostered by an isolated, peculiar couple living out in the kiwi bush.
Ricky, played by a chubby Julian Dennison is simply amazing, it's impossible to dislike the kid as you witness his attempts to both escape and connect with his new foster parents, the smothering, eccentric, warm-hearted Bella (Rima Te Wiata) and cold, distant, do-not-disturb Hec. (Sam Neill)
Events are set in motion and without giving anything away, Hec and Ricky inadvertently end up as fugitives and go on the run in the bush, forming an unlikely bond. They meet an assortment of quirky characters each blossoming hilarious moments. Especially Rhys Darby playing Psycho Sam the Bush Man who I recognised from The Boat That Rocked as Angus Nutsford. Quite similar to the type of characters and wit you should find in a Wes Anderson film or a live action Studio Ghibli film.
It's extremely refreshing when a comedy allows facial expressions of shock and frustration tell the story and release some of the best laughs. But it's not all laughs and the emotional elements are touching, sharp and incredibly heart-warming, though you're not left to wallow in sadness long before they're back on the run with the stubborn social services matron, Paula, hot on their trail, played by Waititi regular Rachel House.
The soundtrack and score is mixed, but so superbly well, from enchanting harmonics to eighties synths credited to a trio better known as Moniker, a dance/trance group.
It's a film certainly for my era loaded with movie references from the eighties that some younger viewers might not fully appreciate, though Ricky expresses an extensive knowledge of thug- culture naming his dog Tupac. The film certainly brought back fond memories of films like Thelma & Louise and Secondhand Lions.
It's comedy genius that's delightful on a grand scale, beautifully shot with some extraordinary scenes. It's cleverly edited, brilliantly scripted and perfectly paced for 101mins of running time. One of those perfect films you can watch over and over again.
Bush Buddies
This is my review of Hunt for the Wilderpeople
TAIKA WAITITI HAS had a stranger career trajectory than most. That he's the man who can be trusted with Thor: Ragnarok by Marvel Studios implies that a certain kind of director, but his previous film a vampire horror-mockumentary What We Do In The Shadows – suggests someone entirely different. This is much like his previous film with a lot of charm and humour at its heart. From the first glimpse this may seem like a strange Indie movie with a ridiculous plot, but it's actually smart and it is a genuinely beautiful story about life, and the fact that it can take a rather vicious turn. If you were surprised to see Marvel hand him such a high-profile gig, then Hunt for the Wilderpeople is hardly going to make you feel differently. But that's by no means a bad thing. Coming on like a low-budget live action version of Disney Pixar's Up directed by a Wes Anderson who doesn't mind getting a little bit muddy, this adaptation of Barry Crump's 1986 novel Wild Pork and Watercress is the ideal showcase for Waititi's exuberant sense of humour and his flair for inventive absurdity.
Neill is the national star, as grieving ex-convict Hector Faulkner but its 13 year-old actor Julian Dennison who gets all the best and funniest lines as juvenile delinquent Ricky Baker, he is a troublesome kid who has a tendency misbehave and is on the verge of being sent to juvenile prison but has a lot of fun on his outback adventure that gets just that little bit wild and is a whole bunch of fun and filled with laughs. One example; is when Hec and Ricky are hiding from a bunch of soldiers and Ricky is making these finger gestures and Hec can't quite figure out what he is saying, and after the soldiers leave he shouts "I was trying to tell you it's a lot like Lord of the Rings!" there are whole bunch of those moments hidden amongst the bush of: lets call it humour.
The story is brilliant full of warmth, charm and wit that's beautifully told over ten hectic chapters which feature a rather strange eulogy (courtesy of a fantastic Waititi cameo), seemingly gigantic CGI wild boar and a climactic car chase that references Thelma & Louise, Wilderpeople presents a comically heightened world. This may nudge a few of its inhabitants enter caricature territory, but it's mitigated by a strong sense of warmth, sweetness and humanity pervading the entire film. At the beginning when Ricky meets his foster parent he first meets his Aunt Belle (Rima Te Wiata) who he likes straight away with her whimsical characteristics. His 'Uncle Hec' however doesn't much like him. In terms of character development its progressive much like the story as we learn about 'Uncle Hec' who shows to be a man who likes his space we learn about Ricky and the fact that he has to recite some Haikus that he writes himself that he says aren't particularly great but these make the character very likable and add a huge amount of human touch. But it shows that once again, Dennison is the hero here. As Ricky, he can be obtuse, offensive and obsessed with being "gangster." But moments he'll remind us he's an abandoned child in need of emotional security – such as when he develops a dependency on hot water bottles or envisions a girl he meets in a kind of faux-erotic '80s Flake ad.
At other moments and maybe throughout the entire film it is weird but an excellent concept human touch is delivered throughout as the moments in life take hold, but along the way there are music hunting montages and a lot of other strange moments mainly involving colanders made into hats in case of 'government hunting' said by a really crazy hermit-like character who's weird but brilliantly likable straight away. Filled with heartwarming moments that will make you cry and scream but also will make you completely fall deeply in love with this handsome and extremely funny comedy which is just an insight to the weird, wonderful and beautiful mind of Taika Waititi. There's a refreshing lack of sentimentality to Wilderpeople and Waititi allows the drama to hit hard where it needs to, so it roots itself far deeper than the whimsical trimmings might suggest. Some scenes will get you swearing that there is something in your eye; others will make you honk like a goose on nitrous oxide. You'll be left with a glow that'll ensure Wilderpeople a place on your best-of-year list. This deftly balances humanity with comedy, it creates nuanced, lovable characters within a style-heightened world. Actually, perhaps Waititi's Marvel gig isn't so surprising after all, in fact we can't wait.
A bit like Up, a bit like Moonrise Kingdom this is a beautiful tale about life that's full of charm, warmth and wit. Waititi's latest is an oddball treat of a mismatched-buddy pursuit movie.
extremely handsome and funny comedy.
Charles Dickens would have loved it
Here in New Zealand a friend of mine is a hipster antiquarian by day, a rather elegant man with hi-brow tastes that with one tap 'Send to Back' peels away to reveal the bushman. He trains gun dogs that accompany him into the wilderness where you will find his ute parked in a Conservation car park for days at a time. If I didn't know him I might have heaped scorn on this movie as not reflecting the real New Zealand, or depicting the yesteryear of 'Wild Pork and Watercress', the touchstone for the film. But truth is stranger than fiction and I entered the portal more than willing to love a good old fashioned bush romp. It has pathos, humour and intrigue. It has good diction, I didn't miss a word (gangsta speak excepted) and there are 'characters' that make a good yarn even if they are a bit larger than life; we want that, don't we. Isn't that what wends a story? My only criticism is that the hunters in the Hut scene lacked a bit of acting talent, it didn't ring true there, but I'm a Kiwi and others might not pick up on the lack of nuance. Well done. Majestical.
Please see this movie
I cannot fault this movie. I was deeply moved by the heart of it. The boy who played Ricky Baker was perfect. Absolutely amazing. When the welfare worker describes his history you feel he is a handful. He is. But he has a real heart and given a chance he is a warrior. There was never a dull moment in this movie. So much great humour and a big deal of suspense. Sam Neill is wonderful as per usual. One of his best for some time. I just saw him in The Daughter and he was also wonderful there but this was up a level. The supporting cast were fantastic but they also graciously took a back row to the main players. I am recommending this to friends and family and know they will not be disappointed.
A comedy which is genuinely funny, with a cast of charming characters
Taika Waititi's new comedy, set in the New Zealand bush, sees the wacky manhunt of a young orphan, Ricky (Julian Dennison), and his foster uncle Hec (Sam Neil). Following the threat of returning to the public system, Ricky flees his new remote farm home, with his foster uncle tracking him down shortly after deep within the bush. With the authorities believing their disappearance to be kidnapping, both Ricky and Hec quickly become fugitives running from the law.
Waititi's excellent brand of comedy doesn't disappoint, with solid character based humour and genuine laugh out loud moments throughout. If you're a fan of Edgar Wright you're sure to enjoy the visual comedic style of the movie, as well as the levity and frivolity, which isn't too dissimilar to that seen in Wright's cornetto trilogy.
Casting is solid with the partnership between Neil and Dennison producing some excellent chemistry; well balanced by the comical partnership of unrelenting and headstrong child-services worker Paula (Rachel House) and incompetent police officer Andy (Oscar Kightley).
16 out of 21 found this helpful. Was this review helpful? Sign in to vote.
Ricky Baker (Dennison), a defiant young city kid, is sent by child welfare services to live in the country with foster parents,whom he calls Aunt Bella and Uncle Hec.
When Bella passes away and child services decide to take Ricky back to a care home, Ricky runs away into the bush with Uncle Hec in pursuit.
Child services arrive to find the house empty, and come to the conclusion a bereaved and mentally unstable Hec has abducted Ricky.
A national manhunt ensues, and the two have to get over their differences to survive.....
When we first meet the wonderful Neill as Hec, you would be forgiven that this was another one of those films where a grumpy old man hates the ne'er do well child at first, but gradually begins to like him, and they build a bond which will make them metaphorical father and son come the end.
The type of film that Sean Connery and Kirk Douglas made in their wilderness years.
Now this follows the same arc, but it steers clear of all the sickly sweet tropes, and the obligatory speech one of them has at the end regarding life lessons and how they're adventure together has opened their eyes to the good in life.
This is simply a wonderful tale of two lost souls who get lost, and eventually find the most bizarre and hilarious people, who in turn, subliminally teach them that all isn't lost, we are all different, and we learn to cope.
Dennison, pardon the tired expression, is a revelation as Ricky, who, no matter what he's done in the past, is just someone that humanity forgot about and turned its back on.
But again, unlike other, similar movies, Ricky is a pleasant character all the way through the film, and the banter between him and Hec is beautifully whimsical, especially when they are talking about the career of that of being a 'gangster'.
There are some really standout scenes, if there is a funnier funeral scene in a film, I've yet to see it, and the locations and cinematography only add to the films charm.
It's a shame that films like this go pretty much unseen at cinemas, thanks to soulless big budget films, deprive potential viewers from a thing of beauty.
Highly recommended.
Quirky, engaging and effortlessly entertaining
I found this quirky tale of an awkward fat 12 year old delinquent orphan dumped into a loving foster care family and his unlikely adventures with his foster uncle effortlessly entertaining. Based on the book Wild pork and watercress by Barry Crump and adapted by the film's director Taika Waititi, it's a wonderful romp through some of NZ's most scenic wild places beautifully captured by cinematographer Lachlan Milne.
Julian Dennison is 12 year old Ricky Baker and Sam Neill is 'Uncle' Hector and between them, they both make and steal the show. Most of the other characters are rather incidental, except for Hector's partner Bella (Rima Te Wiata) who first demonstrates the love and caring that are critical for the premise.
Do yourself a favour and go see it.
Fun movie with fun characters
Ricky Baker is a thirteen year-old delinquent of the New Zealand foster care system. He is under the delusion that he is a thick-skinned gangster, constantly spouting "I didn't choose the skuxx life, the skuxx life chose me". He is not too much of a delinquent that he is unlikable but he doesn't have a heart of gold either. He is not the brightest bulb in the lamp but picks up on necessary lessons quickly if the right people are around to teach him. He is wildly obese, clueless as to how to survive in the wilderness, and he even commits destruction of property in an attempt to convince the foster care system that he is dead (he never had a chance of being successful with that last one). Ricky Baker could have easily been written as an obnoxious dead-weight of a kid-character. What makes the Hunt for the Wilderpeople so fun to watch is that he is funny and as much as his past hurts him, he doesn't spend his time moping about it. What makes the film even more fun to watch is his partnership with the rugged, primeval Hec played by Sam Neill (finally a role where he does not wear that obvious smile silently screaming "Can you tell I'm the villain of this picture?").
Now onto the story. Ricky has been placed in a home with new foster parents, Bella and Hector or "Hec" for short. The two connect with the primitive way of living, hunting down boars with only knives, containing essential skills for surviving in the forest (or "bush" as the New Zealanders call it) before possessing skills for housekeeping and such. Bella is excited to have Ricky stay with them and shows it often with motherly affection while Hec is, of course, not so keen to the arrangements. He is closed off and the more grizzled of the couple.
Early on in the film, Bella unfortunately passes away, causing the foster care system to determine that Ricky must be placed in a new home. Hec is not pushing Ricky out the door but he has thrown it open to indicate that Ricky should pass through it at some point. Ricky does not want to go back into the system. What is his best course of action then? Leaving a note claiming that he has burned himself to death in the property barn, leaving a drastically unconvincing dummy of himself in the barn, burning the entire barn down instead of only the dummy as he intended, then running away in the bush with few supplies and even less knowledge on how to ration. Of course. I'm surprised I didn't think of that first.
Ricky's scheme to run away causes Hec to come get him, which causes Hec to break his ankle, which causes the two to be stuck in the bush for a few weeks, which causes the foster care people to begin a search under the accusation that Hec has kidnapped the boy, and the story spirals from there. Throughout the film, I kept thinking to myself that if this were to happen in real life, chances are quite strong the main characters would not survive as long as they do. But I found myself smiling, laughing, and interested in their welfare. Why? Because the movie gives a shrug and casually prefaces "I know this is out there. But I'm here to tell a good joke or two. Not to please the public". And surprisingly through that attitude, it pleases a majority of the public.
Hunt for the Wilderpeople is exceptional at recognizing one essential element of comedy; putting interesting characters into a funny situation and watching how they specifically handle it. One small but well choreographed scene finds Hec and Ricky running away from men who want to hand them over to the police. They manage to get back into the forest, then decide that the only thing to do to keep them both out of the government system is to survive in the bush. They begin to run away. After two steps of running, Hec's bad ankle and Ricky's obesity cause them both to come to a grinding halt, panting like they just sprinted for one hundred meters. After a few seconds of panting, they agree that a "fast walk" would be equally effective then begin their journey again.
While I am not sure this film deserves its 100% rating on Rotten Tomatoes, I definitely enjoyed myself. It had elements of Wes Anderson in there, it stayed only as long as it needed to, and it followed silly yet grounded characters who I wanted to see achieve happy endings in a great story. Suspension of disbelief, thy name is Hunt for the Wilderpeople.
Taika Waititi obviously has some talent!
A New Zealand comedy-adventure-drama flick, written and directed by Taika Waititi (who also co-directed, co-wrote and costarred in last year's outstanding 'WHAT WE DO IN THE SHADOWS'). It's based on the 1986 book 'Wild Pork and Watercress' (by Barry Crump); and it stars Sam Neil and Julian Dennison. The film tells the story of a rebellious orphan boy, who runs away (into the woods) with his adoptive uncle. Child welfare services, and the law, hunt them down. The movie received rave reviews from critics (99% positive on Rotten Tomatoes), and it had the highest grossing opening weekend (at the Box Office) for any New Zealand film! I really enjoyed it.
Ricky (Dennison) is a rebellious young orphan, who's had trouble finding a home. Child welfare services places him with a couple in the country, named Hec (Neil) and Bella (Rima Te Wiata). Ricky has trouble, at first, adapting to life there; but he eventually learns to love his new home. When Bella suddenly passes away, child services decides that Hec is not a suitable guardian for the boy (on his own). Ricky then decides to run away, into the woods, out of fear he'll be stuck in a juvenile detention facility. Hec goes looking for him, and child services assumes the boy was abducted by the man. This results in a national manhunt, looking for the two.
The movie is sentimental at times, funny at other moments, and it's also even exciting (on a few occasions). One scene even made me cry (involving a dog). It's also a quirky, and very charming film. Neil and Dennison are both very likable in the leads, and the supporting roles are all fittingly cast. I think Waititi obviously has some talent, and I look forward to seeing what he does next. This film is definitely an enjoyable one.
Charming adventure-comedy from New Zealand can be enjoyed by people young and old
"Hunt for the Wilderpeople" (2016 release from New Zealand) brings the story of Ricky Baker, as 12 or 13 yr. old boy. As the movie opens, we see Ricky being dropped off by the New Zealand social services to a new (and very remote) foster home. "Nobody else wants you!" says Paula the social worker. But foster mom Bella takes a quick liking to the overweight and shy boy. Her husband Hector, though, remains aloof and grumpy. Then, just as things seems to be working out okay, Bella unexpectedly passes away, and Social Services informs Hector that they will take Ricky back to place him in a new foster home. At this point we're 15 minutes in the movie, but to tell you much more of the plot would spoil your viewing experience, you'll just have to see for yourself how it all plays out.
Couple of comments: this is the latest movie from New Zealand writer-director Taika Waititi, who most recently brought us "What We Do In the Shadows". Here he goes in a very different direction, bringing a light-hearted adventure-comedy with some serious undercurrents. The movie is brought in 10 Chapters and an Epilogue. The comedy aspects are sprinkled throughout the movie, and makes this a most charming viewing experience. The adventure aspects, set in the gorgeous landscapes of New Zealand, are never all that serious, focusing instead on the relationship between Ricky and Hector, and what true love and friendship between a parent (yes, even foster parent) and a child is all about. Because so much of the movie is set in the beautiful outdoors, the movie feels like a long commercial for New Zealand (and I mean that as a compliment, not as a complaint). I mean, it just looks gorgeous! The acting performances are top-notch, including New Zealander Sam Neil, but with all due respect, the movie is simply stolen by Julian Dennison, the young man who plays Ricky. He is smart, and funny, and completely believable in this role. Surely we have not seen the last of him! The movie made quite a splash when it premiered at the Sundance Film Festival earlier this year. It is now playing in its second week at my local art-house theater here in Cincinnati, and the Saturday early evening screening where I saw this at was attended very nicely. The audience absolutely LOVED the film, laughing at all the right times, and clearly enjoying themselves. Bottom line: "Hunt for the Wilderpeople" is a charming movie that can be enjoyed by people young and old, and hence it is HIGHLY RECOMMENDED!
Stunningly Wonderful
Despite directing feature films since 2007, New Zealand director Taika Waititi has remained just outside the crust of the crust of the mainstream. Off-beat films like Eagle vs Shark (2007) and What We Do in the Shadows (2014) have certainly gained some notoriety in recent years though anyone subscribing to Jemaine Clement's Twitter feed may not be watching those films with the director in mind. Those who have no idea who Clement is need not apply. Yet Waititi's Boy (2010) ranks among the top grossing New Zealand films and Hunt for the Wilderpeople is poised to overtake the director's sophomore effort, and with good reason. Hunt for the Wilderpeople is one of the best films you're liable to see this year and perhaps, one of the most wistful coming-of-age stories of the decade.
The story begins with the young and rotund Ricky (Dennison) being escorted by child services' Paula (House) to a remote farm house mere hectares from "the bush". Ricky first meets his foster parents with a quixotic warm and cold welcoming. Bella (Te Wiata) does most of the talking, taking every opportunity to make the urban-adaptive Ricky feel at home in rural New Zealand. Hec (Neill), the gruff and irascible man of the house coldly asks if Ricky does anything or is he merely "ornamental". After a series of unfortunate events, Hec and Ricky find themselves the subjects of a manhunt by authorities and are forced to hide in the bush.
The details of Hec and Ricky's predicament are hinted at in the trailers though explaining them would deny you the viewer the opportunity to see a stunningly wonderful movie through fresh eyes. Like encountering a rare bird, this movie shouldn't be talked about, analyzed and autopsied but rather looked upon with awe and wonderment. Once over, the moment should be followed with the quiet contemplation of Walden Pond.
Sam Neill and the young Julian Dennison are pitch-perfect as the miscreant odd couple. Dennison's inept braggadocio aches of street- smart malady mixed with the quiet simpering of a child completely out of his depth. Sure he's led a tough life, much tougher than most I suspect yet next to Hec he's but a mouth whose seen one too many movies. Yet even then he's instantly likable as a character. His resilience, his humor, his moments of pre-teen angst are so honest and sweet that I for one saw myself despite never wanting to become a "Skug." Sam Neill as Hec proves resourceful, forthright and even nurturing in his own individualist way. Despite being functionally illiterate, Hec puts his faith in "the knack," his way of staying calm and tough in distressing situations in the bush. "You know often times when people are found out here, they're naked...they panic and think their clothes are slowing them down," he says before following the stream to high ground. If civilization ever crumbles, Hec is the kind of guy you want leading your war-party.
Much of the film has an off-kilter quality to it. The humor stems from baffling moments of exaggeration from the characters. Rima Te Wiata's Bella exudes cartoonish provincialism while Rachel House's child services stooge is layered with Dahlian villainy.While eluding authorities, the duo always seem to come across the same trio of hunters (Walker, Minogue and Holloway) who are craven for reward money but always wind up looking like Elmer Fudds. Then there's Rhys Darby's part which I dare not ruin lest to say his introduction energizes the film just as it begins to lose a little luster.
Sincere, direct and exaggerated in all the ways a children's tale should be, the film earns all its laughs, tears and moments of suspense with two singularly charming performances and a Spielbergian sense of wonder. Well perhaps Spielbergian may be a malapropism; after all, the film does get laughs out of sly Terminator (1984) and First Blood (1982) references. With Waititi set to direct the next Thor (2011-Present) film, I think we all should hope it ends up being Waititiesque.
Taika Waitit's Best Work Yet
A national manhunt is ordered for a rebellious kid (Julian Dennison) and his foster uncle (Sam Neill) who go missing in the wild New Zealand bush.
Director Taika Waititi has been on quite a role, moving up in the world one big step at a time. "Wilderpeople" is his fourth film to premiere at the Sundance Film Festival, after "Eagle Vs Shark", "Boy" and "What We Do in the Shadows", which have all opened to critical acclaim. "Boy" was nominated for an Oscar, and "Shadows" is already considered one of the top genre films of the 21st century.
The New Zealand film industry in general has skyrocketed since Peter Jackson turned his lens on the landscape for "Lord of the Rings". (Of course, horror fans knew who he was well before that.) From the opening scene, "Wilderpeople" takes full advantage of this same landscape made famous by the world of elves and dwarfs. In fact, with the bulk taking place in the lush woods, this may be the best unintentional travel advertisement the country has seen yet.
Seeing Waititi's name piqued my interest in the film, but before I even noticed him, I saw the name of Sam Neill. And I asked myself: Has Sam Neill ever appeared in a bad film? Well, of course, he probably has, but none quickly come to mind, and I am pleased to announce his portrayal of Uncle Hector in this movie can be added to his long list of successful roles. He has apparently now reached the point in his career where he can play the grizzled old man (who mistakenly is thought to be a kidnapper and possible pervert). Though all the actors do a fine job, Neill adds a level of gravitas to the production.
What makes this such an enjoyable film is that the subject matter is handled in the most light-hearted way. The main character has a background in juvenile delinquency, including setting fires and spraying graffiti, but we never see him as a bad kid. The duo is pursued relentlessly by the police and an exaggeratedly-cruel social worker, but even here there is no threat of danger perceived by the audience. "I'm the Terminator, and you're Sarah Connor," she says, painting an amusing image (and clearly indicating that she knows she is the villain, even if only subconsciously).
"It's just like Laurel and Hardy in the wilderness," Waititi says. "I just thought it would be very funny for a kid who's obsessed with Tupac and being a tough kid on the streets of the city to be thrown out into the harsh realities of the New Zealand winter." Now, the Laurel and Hardy comparison is not quite right, because our heroes are not nearly as helpless or bumbling. But they are an odd couple, to be sure, and are not immediately all that interested in the other's well-being.
The real humor comes not from the two leads, but rather the cast of characters they run into. There is Psycho Sam (Rhys Darby), who is not the slightest bit crazy but deeply wishes that he were a local legend. And one highlight comes in the form of a preacher who sermonizes that there is a door that leads to Coke Zero and Doritos but to get to Jesus you need to enter a second door. "Jesus is tricky like that," he deadpans. The preacher is played by none other than Waititi himself.
This is Waititi's best work yet. And he is already moving on to even bigger things: directing Marvel's next "Thor" movie, which may bring some fresh air to the weakest of the Marvel franchises. "Hunt For the Wilderpeople" had premieres at Sundance and Fantasia, and I suspect will receive a wide release in the fall of 2016.
A Charming and Funny Film Out of New Zealand
This New Zealand comic gem is about 13-year-old misfit Ricky Baker, whose last-resort foster placement is way, way out in the bush. Frankly, he'd rather be in urban Wellington or Christchurch, hanging with his homies, busting out to his walkman, tagging prime real estate, and living the gangsta life (in his head). But it isn't to be. He's too far and too needy to make it back. Not for want of trying. When Ricky (played superbly by Julian Dennison) disappears into the bush with his foster uncle Hec (Sam Elliot, almost unrecognizable under a beard), the child protective system moves into high gear to "rescue" him. This dramatic and high-profile effort to save the boy, one can only imagine, comes after a dozen years of ignoring his needs and the quality and suitability of his placements atop no real understanding of what children need. Directed with great energy by Taika Waititi, who also wrote the script, it has perhaps one chase scene that goes on too long, but as it occurs, the viewer is still basking in the enjoyment of Hec and Ricky's hilarious encounter with a real bush man. Colander, anyone? Manohla Dargis in the New York Times acknowledges Waititi's effervescent touch reminiscent of Wes Anderson, and says, "Charming and funny, it is a drama masquerading as a comedy about an unloved boy whom nobody wants until someone says, Yes, I'll love him." And you will, too. The credits include mention of drone pilots, and, though there are numerous helicopters in the plot, drones enable an amount of aerial photography heretofore prohibitively expensive. In the film's travelogue dimensions, also awesome.
One of the Best Films Ever Made
I'm not playing around here. This movie is one of the best movies ever made. It's not often a movie comes around that tops movies like "Dead Poets Society" and "Spotlight," but this one really did. It topped them.
Truly one of the best films ever. It pushes the line between drama and comedy, much like "American Beauty." In fact, and this is coming from a person whose favorite movie ever is "American Beauty," this movie is EVEN BETTER. I don't like it more, but holy hell, it's actually better than "American Beauty!" Now, not by a whole lot, mind you, but still.
The realism is the film's only slight, slight weakness.
The directing was amazing. The long, sweeping shots of the beautiful New Zealand landscape were almost as well-done as the intense action scene with our two leads versus a wild boar. I kid you not, that is one of the best action sequences in film history.
The writing was brilliant. Hec was written absolutely perfectly, and Ricky, while he may have suffered slight conflict of character, was very well-written as well.
As far as acting goes, we owe the two leads a huge apology for not making them movie stars sooner, because they were phenomenal. The sublime involved in both characters was astounding.
This movie was the funniest drama I've ever seen, or the most dramatic comedy I've ever seen. Again, (like "Wolf of Wall Street" and "American Beauty,"), it's extremely hard to classify. There are scenes in this movie that will make you cry. There are scenes in this movie that will make you laugh, and did make me laugh, harder than you ever did while watching a comedy movie.
I didn't expect a film to be this good again until the next Scorsese movie came out. I under-estimated the world of film. Keep it up.
In the Top Twenty greatest films of all time.
Coming of Age, New Zealand Style
Ricky Baker (Julian Dennison) is fat, unwanted and unloved - hopping from foster home to foster home in the New Zealand child care system, until he is taken in by Bella (Rima Te Wiata) and Hec (Sam Neill), in whose house he seems to have finally found a family of his own. When Bella suddenly dies, however, he is told that he will be sent back to "juvie," and Ricky decides instead to run away into the nearby forest, but Hec can't let him just run off on his own, so he goes too; and soon the entire police force and Army are out searching for the fugitives.There was a terrific film a year or so ago called "What We Do In The Shadows," about modern-day vampires just trying to fit in; "Wilderpeople" comes from the same director, Taika Waititi, and while the story here is completely different, it's just as wacky, off- beat, flat-out hilarious and occasionally poignant as that first film. New Zealand has only looked more beautiful in "LotR" (which is, of course referenced here in a very amusing aside); but it's really the people, especially Julian Dennison as the unforgettable Ricky, who are the stars of the film. Waititi is apparently directing the new "Thor" movie at present; let's hope Hollywood doesn't dilute or destroy his original, funny and deeply humanistic talent.
Take the walk.
A Fantastic hunt indeed!
So this was a pretty fun movie. Sam Neil like I never seem him before plays a man named Hec living in a shack with his wife, who decides to take in a troubled youth who has been bouncing from foster home to foster home in hopes that he does not end up in juvie. Suddenly, this guy's wife dies leaving him to take care of the foster kid, Ricky Baker, who runs instead of going back into foster care and do to a grave misunderstanding, Hec is now wanted by the authorizes for kidnapping the boy. Now the two are living off the land in the wilderness trying to keep out of jail.
Young Ricky Baker explains to Hec that what they are going through is a lot like Lord of the Rings, I seriously doubt that. Though both movies were filmed in New Zealand, I think Hunt for the Wilderpeople could only pay for the craft services on just one of the Ring films. Although, it was quite a big adventure.
Ricky Baker is like a fat little Hobbit and the man he calls Uncle Hec is like a crazed Gandalf. They go on a journey confronting creepy hunters, psychopaths living alone in the woods, raging warhogs and of course the law. Aiding them on their journey is Ricky's dog Tupac and Hec's dog Sam as they learn to bond as a family. Ricky Baker even gets to met a princess (sort of).
So I guess in a lot of ways it is like the Lord of the Rings. It's definitely just as epic of a journey, watching them survive the terrain of the wilderness for almost a year.
There was a cameo in the movie from this guy who starred in another New Zealand film called Boy. I really like that movie and this movie has a similar style. Not a coincidence as it turns out he directed this movie as well as Boy. Taika Waititi is a type of filmmaker I like. It's like 80s retro style with a twist of 90s influence, which hits me right at home. It's not that I have not seen other filmmakers use the style, but he gets uniqueness points for his use of Brown people and the New Zealand setting. This is the a guy who I want to look out for and see his stuff, and I just discover he's doing the next Thor, so even more reason to want to see that flick.
But see this one first, it's an excellent adventure like Lord of the Rings but way funnier.
Lovely movie but not Waititis best
I do love Taika Waititis movies and I totally dig his style. I also think he is a very talented and unique movie-maker. I liked "Wilderpeople", but in my opinion it was not as strong as Boy or What we do in the shadows.
I feel that his off-beat low key style went a little too far this time, so that as an audience I lost emotional connection with the story and characters a few times. The flow of the movie was not as good as in Shadows or Boy, and with this style of movie, the right flow is very important. Also, it felt at times that the style was prevailing over the content.
It is interesting that even though the story line in What we do in the shadows was even more fragmentary, it somehow worked there. And even though Shadows had a also a very unique styling it never felt like forced or artificial.
Also I thought that the dogs in the film were totally unnecessary. They did not add anything to the story and the way they were filmed created the feeling of dis-continuity. In some scenes the dogs appeared and in others seemed to have disappeared forever. Then again they appeared erratically as if the director suddenly had remembered: "Blimey, i had the dogs a few scenes ago, I need to show the ears or the tail for continuity. "
Having said that, overall Wilderpeople was still a positive movie experience. All characters were funny and likable, even the evil social services inspector. The kid who played the main role was simply wonderful and so cute. Sam Neil as "uncle" and actress who played "auntie" did great job as well. I loved the cinematography, the intentional bending rules of "good" cinematography, the New Zealand-specific details in peoples homes, etc.
I admired the unique and quirky cinematography already in the Shadows, and here Waiti continues serving an intentionally off-beat strange and wonderful cinematography.
Also I liked the idea - two free spirits, outcasts of the society against the heartless and bureaucratic system. I loved that in the end the kid and the uncle were reunited in a straight forward happy end fashion. Even though the film had some flaws, definitely would recommend it as another example of talented and unique Taika Waititis work and also showcasing some wonderful NZ actors.
Ups, almost forgot:besides the leads, auntie and social inspector one of the best characters is the wild bush man, played by the funnyman whose name always escapes me but he was the leader of verwolves in What we do in the shadows (Remember "We are the verwolves, not the swear-wolves"?)
Can't Be Faulted - Full Of Laughs; Quirky And Crazy Fun!
Knowing that Taika Waititi, the comedic mastermind behind the hilarious What We Do In The Shadows and Boy was also the force behind Hunt For The Wilderpeople, I was jumping out of my skin to know more. Watching the trailer, the scene was set for me to thoroughly enjoy this film.
And it didn't disappoint full of great one-liners and incredibly dry humour throughout, I am struggling to find a fault with this film. Sam Neill is fantastic as the no-nonsense grumpy old foster parent, as is Rachel House as the stern, unstoppable Child Services worker Paula ('no child left behind' her self-appointed motto). But no one can out-shine Julian Dennison who plays no-good delinquent Ricky Baker. His comedic delivery is spot-on and you're rooting for him from beginning to end.
I'm so thrilled to see our Kiwi neighbours soaring in the film industry, particularly with Taika having co-written the next Disney animation Moana and also taking the reins of the upcoming Marvel juggernaut Thor: Ragnarok which is currently in pre-production.
This movie was so great that I actually saw it twice if you love quirky comedies a la Flight Of The Conchords and Wes Anderson, you will love this as much as I did.
Uncle Hec and Ricky for the win
Oak Cliff Film Festival 2016 Greetings again from the darkness. It just doesn't seem very many movies are designed to be funny to a wide range of viewers. There are raunchy comedies for taboo lovers. There are comedies for young kids. There are even Nicolas Cage movies for unintentional laughs. But writer/director Taika Waititi actually delivers a thoroughly entertaining movie that will generate laughs across multiple generations  it's quite simply, a fun time at the theatre.
It's based on the 1986 book "Wild Pork and Watercress" by Barry Crump, who himself is a bit of a legendary figure in New Zealand. The film begins with Child Protective Services (or whatever it's called in New Zealand) dropping off 12 year old Ricky Baker to his new foster family. Paula, the CPS agent, considers Ricky a lost cause and describes him as "a very bad egg" as she rattles off his list of previous rebellions to new foster mom Bella, who takes note of Ricky's heft with a couple of wisecracks – delivered with a well-meaning smile.
In a terrific screen introduction, "Uncle" Hec slowly comes into frame flashing a world class scowl and a wild boar slung over his shoulder. Ricky continues his habit of running away at night, but Bella slowly wins him over with her kindness, understanding and breakfast offerings. A tragic occurrence and fear of being shipped back to the juvenile center, has Ricky disappearing into the New Zealand bush. Soon enough Hec catches up and the two begin a relationship that is the core of the film.
Rima Te Wiata plays Bella as a perpetually optimistic woman with a sincere drive to help Ricky adjust and find some joy in life. Sam Neill plays Hec in full grumpy curmudgeon mode  a nice compliment to the extraordinary presence of Julian Dennison (Paper Planes) as Ricky. Ricky and Hec together are a hoot to watch. It's not simply the generational differences, but also a clash of one man who wants little more than to be left alone and a young boy who wants little more than to be noticed and cared about. It's not so much the direction of their relationship that surprises, but rather the manner in which it develops.
Director Waititi's next film is Thor: Ragnarok, so this makes us appreciate even more his pleasant little indie film that features not just colorful and interesting characters, but the beautiful landscape of the New Zealand bush  much of which we see during the humorous manhunt for Hec and Ricky. It's a farcical comedy with a dose of profundity and loads of adventure for two social misfits. Rachel House is pretty funny as the obsessed CPS worker, and Rhys Darby ("Flight of the Conchords") is downright hilarious as Psycho Sam. Watching criminial-wannabe Ricky literally count off his Haiku, leaves little doubt as to why this one has been such an "audience favorite" at multiple film festivals.
Great Movie!
What a great movie - justifiably now the alltime biggest box office NZ flick.
Here's something that may amuse many people: despite going into it knowing that Sam Neil was in the movie, at no point, (absolutely literally), did it ever occur to me that Hec was Sam Neill. This must surely be the performance of his career.
From the superb cinematography to some very clever sliding/blended shots, the film was an absolute delight for the eyes. The soundtrack was also perfect.
With a couple of extremely leftfield surprises, this is not a movie that anyone will second guess.
My wife and daughter were seeing it for the second time - I'll be more than happy to watch it again!
I couldn't stop laughing
O, my goodness, I wasn't expecting this at all, I seriously thought HUNT FOR THE WILDERPEOPLE was going to be your usual predictable story about an orphan who looks up to an older man as his father figure. But the level of brutal honesty coming from all the characters is just off the charts. This is hands down, one of the funniest movies of the year, I couldn't stop laughing.
Writer/director Taika Waititi who gave us "Flight of the Conchords," and "What We Do In The Shadows" is back with this story set in his origin place of New Zealand where a defiant city kid named Ricky (Julian Dennison) finds himself at a home of a new foster family, an aunt that actually cares for him and Uncle Hec (Sam Neill) who'd rather be left alone. But a tragedy strikes which motivates Ricky and Hec to go on the run while a national manhunt ensues and brands them outlaws.
HUNT FOR THE WILDERPEOPLE is absolutely hilarious, calling it a crowd-pleaser is spot on, no better way to describe it. And as I said earlier, the characters in this film are brutally honest, there's no holding back and the comedy lies in this huge case of misunderstanding. But deep down, the kid just wants to be part of a family that for once wouldn't quickly give up and leave him out to dirt at the first sign of trouble. I've never read Barry Crump's book which was the basis for this film, but I'm guessing Waititi saw something in that story that resonates because we all want to fee like we belong somewhere; we don't want to feel like some kind of vagabond or a stray. So despite the fact that this kid, Ricky, is hard to deal with and he'll make anyone frustrated, you can tell that he's just an angry and scared teen and when you look at him from that perspective, HUNT FOR THE WILDERPEOPLE will leave a lasting impression in addition to it being ridiculously funny. The things that Ricky says and does, you'll be laughing out loud till it hurts. Julian Dennison is a revelation, I hope he gets more gigs from this point forward.
Flight of the Kiwis
A simple story told well in a majestical setting (that is a real word isn't it?) beats CGI hands down every time. NZ wilderness is the real star, but watch out for Murray from Flight of the Concords. It's a great cast and they all shine in this movie based on a book. You'll be cheering on the under dogs as they are hunted across the wilds of Hobbit land. It's a lovely funny story set in chapters from the director who gave us Eagle vs Shark and What We Do In The Shadows. Can't wait to see his treatment of Thor. You will be using quotes from this movie in your vernacular for years to come. I found myself clapping as the credits rolled.
Hilarious but also a really moving story line
I will be so disappointed if this incredible film doesn't win a prize! It made me laugh so hard that I cried . . . then cry some more. Beautiful cinematography, incredible acting, great script writing and adaptation of the original book. This was a unique film that includes the full gamut of emotions. You definitely need to see this while it's still playing in the cinemas!
In my opinion, this is Sam Neill's best performance to date. The interaction between his character and his foster son is heart-warming. Some of the later part of the story line becomes a bit unbelievable but it seems to work with the overall film. Such a joy to watch that I can't wait to watch it again!
Bloody loved this movie.
The comparisons with Waititi's excellent "Boy" will be made.
Both films have charismatic, young boys at their centre, who are coming of age. They both contrast urban challenges with the serenity and simplicity of nature. And they both tell a story that is simple, yet compelling.
THFTWP however focuses more on two parallel journeys:
One of the older ... Hec ( Sam Neil) One of the younger ... Ricky (Julian Dennison)
They both have been rejected by society and have no family. They both find solace and peace in the wild and nature. And, as the film unfolds, they both find themselves, as well as a love for each other.
This is a wonderful film.
Typically Kiwi in it's flavour and scenery. Typically Waitiiti in being both gut-gurgingly funny and heart-breakeningly sad.
I bloody loved this movie ... especially these stand-out scenes:
Waititi's preacher two-door sermon at a funeral. Rhys Darbie's anti-establishment caravan craziness. Stan Walker's baba ganoush unveiling from his back-pack.
Really good
"Hunt for the Wilderpeople" seems like your run-of-the-mill movie about kid with problems that connects with older person, and then both of them learn how to understand each other and how to deal with the whole wide world.
And it is.
But it is much more than that.
Directed by Taika Waititi (whose other work also offers the same kind of humour), "Hunt for the Wilderpeople" may not be a very original movie, but it is a movie with heart and lots of comedy and silliness that never overstays its welcome. If you don't laugh, at least you will be smiling throughout the whole affair, feeling a connection to Neill's Faulkner and Dennison's Baker, two of those characters that are so easy to relate to, one bitter and old and the other bitter and young.
The script keeps things fast and loose, the jokes coming, and all under a clear patina of surrealism. The direction is assured and never let things get out of hand. But the best is the acting. Sam Neill has never been better, and Julian Dennison shines. But all the cast does an amazing job.
It is tonally uneven in a couple of places, and it takes a couple of strange decisions, but those are minor quibbles in a very funny and heartfelt movie.
Totally recommended.
Humorous the whole way through, with standout performances by New Zealand's finest in comedy.
I saw a trailer for this film that had me intrigued, I then went to watch it at the cinemas. It was an incredibly humorous film with moments of great drama, the outsider Ricky Baker forms an unlikely bond with some farm dwellers on the outskirts of New Zealand's wilderness. A lot of stand out performances from some incredible New Zealand actors and actresses, proving that they have incredible comedic chops and ability. This film is going to put the New Zealand industry on the map, helmed by Taika Waititi who had done an incredible job of telling this story. This film has everything, from non-stop humour to some intense action scenes, followed by dramatic moments. I would recommend everyone see this film in cinemas.
A Totally Enjoyable Film
Diane and I saw this film in Fremantle yesterday and both of us greatly enjoyed it. This film will soon point out its origins because of the quite staggering beauty of the backgrounds: one might say unequaled in the world.
Leaving my obvious enamor of New Zealand I enjoyed the script and the two lead actors: Sam Neill and his young sidekick, Julian Dennison. Neill plays a gruff Grey-bearded Bushie who is married to a young woman who heads a cast of exceptionally good fill-ins who take roles in this massively enjoyable film that devolves into a man-hunt for this very unlikely pair by equally unlikely searchers; however, the film does not in any way lose its enjoyment factor in the least.
Of course, there will be commentators who will trot out the "usual suspects": slack script, cardboard characters, actors that just mouth their lines, we have read all of these comments before if they have any pretension of "true film academia" but in my opinion forget that film is for enjoyment and Hunt for the Wilderpeople is for pure enjoyment.
They don't make movies like this one anymore where plot and character building and relationships take centre stage. Also where sequential explosions and CGI can render the viewer's senses numb in even the mini blockbuster nowadays, there is a charming sentiment that Taika Waititi brings to every one of his films. He injects it in almost every scene for Hunt for the Wilder People. It is the laid back humour where you have to listen carefully or you'll miss the subtle jokes that keeps you involved. The plot is simple, but realistic especially about how humans interact with each other and the impressions they leave behind.
The cast is very gifted, from the experienced and amazing Sam Neill, to newcomers such as Julian Dennison and Tioreore Ngatai-Melbourne. Kiwi talent is inexhaustible and unique. The story explores a few of life's issues such as bureaucracy, teenage pregnancy and mental health just to mention a few. And for those who like action, there is also a heart stopping high speed car crash scene.
This is a special movie where it will make you chuckle at some rude jokes to bringing some tears to your eyes or just marvel at the beauty of NZ nature. But it will definitely make you think about a lot of things, from the past to the present. It's good in a way that there are so many predictable trilogy blockbusters with lacklustre story lines out there and coming soon. It's when you stumble across movies like Hunt for the Wilder People it really brings you back to the truly important issues in life and the people in it. However, don't despair. As Waititi intended, life is more tolerable when you laugh through it.
Kiwi adventure amongst flora & fauna
I thought at first this was going to be another funny rural visit with some quirky Maori characters like in the movie Boy. Surprisingly, events escalated into quite an epic 'Hunt'. Along the way we meet some very lovable humans and dogs headed by Uncle Hec, Aunty Bella and Ricky. Checking the cast list I notice 2 characters: the beautiful, talkative girl on the horse and her daggy dad omitted. Who the hell are they? They were great! No wonder Sam Neil has had such an amazing career. The layers he reveals in his grumpy old man transforms him into a big-hearted hero. Rima Te Wiata gives us an Aunty filled with such joy, love and musical talent that she lingers in the heart. And of course without the very interesting and incredibly talented Julian Dennison there wouldn't be such a great movie. I took 1 star off for over the top moments snuck in by Paula, Psycho Sam and Joe.
An absolute gem of a movie.
Those familiar with writer-director-actor Taika Waititi's last three films – What We Do in the Shadows, Boy and Eagle vs Shark – already know how bloody brilliant the New Zealand native is both behind and in front of the camera. If there is any justice in the world then his most recent Kiwi adventure, which maintains the ridiculously high standard he has set, will attract big crowds and greatly expand the number of people fortunate enough to watch this master at work. This charming tale of a rambunctious orphaned kid (Julian Dennison) trying to find his place in life, and in the NZ wilderness where his latest foster carers reside, beautifully blends cartoonish humour and meaty themes into its fascinating story. Adept at finding both poignancy and hilarity in the simple moments, Waititi's observations on culture, relationships and human behaviour draw you in to his world, which is all too real yet somehow heightened at the same time. Populated with subtly compelling characters whom you want to hang out with, laugh with, cry with and struggle through life with, the 101 minute runtime utterly flies by; when the end credits roll you'll not be ready to leave. Acting alongside screen veteran Sam Neill (outstanding – obviously) for the most part, the absurdly charismatic Dennison is an absolute revelation too, looking completely at ease filling the shoes of defiant 13-year-old Ricky Baker. Hopefully many more roles are forthcoming. At times hilarious, at times heartbreaking, and always enthralling, Hunt for the Wilderpeople is a gem of a movie that verifies Waititi is a filmmaking genius.
great family fun' if you are a Kiwi
Some movies make you wonder why they were made at all. Today's crowded cinematic space suggests that if you are going to fund a feature film then surely you have a special story you want to share. Hunt for the Wilderpeople (2016) has all the ingredients of a good film, including star drawcard Sam Neill, an extraordinary setting in one of the most beautiful places on earth (New Zealand) and a respected tradition of filmmaking that includes The Piano, Lord of the Rings and An Angel at My Table. But labelling Wilderpeople as "comic dynamite" and "pure genius" did not help produce as much as a single laugh in my cinema, although it would have been hard to find an honest label that gives the film any sense of purpose. But New Zealanders love it.
The main plot line consists of a "national manhunt" by bumbling police and reward-hungry bad guys in pursuit of grouchy old Hector (Sam Neill) and likeably obnoxious 11-year old Ricky (Julian Dennison). The weirdly funny Child Welfare Officer wants orphan Ricky back in State care and Hector is regarded as a possible 'pervert' so the duo head for the hills. They must deal with wild boar, crazy hermits, hunger, broken limbs and cold, but all of this is grist for the mill as Ricky loves living rough and playing a real gangster on the run. He has never known home or family so Hector is his salvation. Like in most runaway-chase films, the fugitives keep narrowly escaping the law but eventually come to rest and find redemption in each other.
This film would be 'great family fun' if you are a Kiwi. For everyone else however, even their closest Aussie cousins, this film is little more than a spectacular tourism advertisement for the rugged landscapes and mountainous lakes and gorges that are scattered across beautiful New Zealand. The cinematography is absolutely delightful and will undoubtedly encourage many to see it for themselves. Without Sam Neill's capacity for gravitas, grouchiness and gruff sentimentality the film would struggle for audiences, and even with him it's a niche market only. If you dig hard, some will find a heart-warming tale about family or its emotional variants, but there is little more to this film than a few quirky characters, a romp through the forest chased by silly people, and script that probably read better as a book.
Funny, sad, touching, and life-affirming... but mostly funny!
Only a truly gifted filmmaker like Taika Waititi could make a story about loss and acceptance so damned funny. It's a coming-of-age story about troubled foster kid Ricky, bounced from home to home because of his persistently bad behaviour, who finally ends up with a family of last resort: childless middle-aged farmers Bella and Hector, who live alone in their remote mountaintop property.
Against all odds, Ricky begins to find acceptance and contentment in this setting, but an unexpected tragedy followed by a series of accidents results in Ricky and his reluctant "uncle" Hector being on the run in the wilderness.
Despite the grim subject matter, Hunt for the Wilderpeople is laugh-out-loud funny from start to finish, interspersed with deftly-handled moments of sincere, touching pathos. Despite a bit of swearing and some brief talk of fairly adult topics, this is truly a family film, with something to keep everyone from kids to grandparents engrossed and entertained.
Warm-hearted and wacky
The "Wilderpeople" in this quirky comedy are two lost souls: a wayward youth from the city (Ricky Baker –Julian Dennison) and his grouchy foster uncle (Hector – Sam Neill) with a past he can't forget. This odd couple find themselves on the run and dependent on each other in the New Zealand wilderness. I must admit I am a sucker for quirky unpretentious New Zealand comedies that are warm-hearted but resist the Hollywood schmaltzy formula. The humor in this film is typically Kiwi – dry, offbeat and irreverent. Julian Dennison is great as the rotund teenager with a sense of fun and adventure. As the escapade moves to its climax, the plot becomes more and more farcical. While some of the scenes are funny, our empathy for Ricky and Hector fades. Empathy and farce do not mix well. And the ending is hurried and not completely satisfying. Nevertheless, I enjoyed the movie and the Aussie audience came away wearing a smile.
Reasonably enjoyable
With gentle humour and packed full of Kiwiana this is a reasonably enjoyable film without hitting any great or new heights. The theme is an old one, the setting different and the acting good enough. New Zealand audiences love it as they see a part of themselves and their lives reflected back to them - Bush tramping and hunting are as stereotypically Kiwi as you can be. Maybe I wasn't in the right mood at the time but the pathos was lost on me, appearing ham-fisted. Some of the acting was cartoonish but maybe that was the point, it is a comedy after all, but it didn't work for me. Perhaps I have seen too many good comedies down the years done really well. I won't begrudge Kiwis the right to publish rave reviews here, I'm just sorry I can't join them in that.
Hugely enjoyable comedy adventure with serious undertones
Kiwi director Taika Waititi of "Boy" and "What We Do In the Shadows" fame will shortly be stepping into the big leagues directing the next "Thor" movie.
In the meantime he has conjured up another slice of real Kiwi life on a budget that would probably fail to cover the catering bill for his new movie. Waititi translates Kiwi writer Barry Crump's book into a screenplay full of Kiwiana, irony and humour.
We meet Ricky Baker (Julian Dennison) as the local police (Oscar Kightley) and "enthusiastic" Child Care worker "Paula" (Rachel House), attempt to rehouse the young Maori lad with his new adoptive foster parents. "Aunt Bella" (Rima Te Wiata), child loving and with a heart of gold together with husband "Hec" (Sam Neill), a loner bushman with little desire to house a young delinquent.
Ricky's long list of offences are mentioned, including "smashing stuff and throwing rocks" but Paula is very determined, oft repeating her personal motto, "no child left behind".
The opening scene sets the tone perfectly, as Ricky carefully surveys his new accommodation and quietly returns to the police car.
Despite finding his new basic rural surroundings somewhat bewildering, including a gloriously bloody wild pig hunt, Ricky starts to become part of the family as he is showered by Aunt Bella's practical love and understanding.
Following an event, Ricky and Hec strike out on their own into the New Zealand bush as a national man hunt for the pair commences. Can they get on, will Hec's heart eventually melt, if indeed he can find it? This is a comedy drama with emphasis on the humour with incompetent hunters, crazy bushmen (Rhys Darby) and comical situations. However framed with underlying sadness and a serious story under pinning the whole endeavour. The tone is reminiscent of director Waititi's' "Boy" and manages to stay consistent throughout. Waititi even allowing himself a brief cameo, to great comedic effect.
There are plenty of belly laughs for those that understand and know New Zealand well. Neill essaying your everyday "she'll be right" Kiwi bloke, whilst providing a much needed straight man to all the shenanigans.
Some scenes are pushed too far, with Paula's quest going to ridiculous length's for the sake of comedy and Darby overbalancing his scenes with his usual shtick. Somehow with the solid anchor of Dennison's fresh performance and Neill's experience, the ship manages to stay the right way up.
The New Zealand bush is shown in all it's glory with the addition of a great choral track to accompany the shots of the overhead tree canopy.
Overall a much more approachable and enjoyable film than "Shadows" which will play especially well with Kiwi's and Australians but does have broader appeal.
Hugely enjoyable comedy adventure with serious undertones and represents a real return to form for Waititi. It's also good to see Sam Neill on the big screen again, opposite a great new young talent.
What a great story, Funny, heart-warming and great acting from all actors - especially Julian Dannison and Sam Neill and Rima Te Wiata. But also the shorter performances by Rhys Darby, Taika Waititi and Stan Walker are hilarious. A lot to laugh, but on a good level. Though I do not know the original story by Barry Crumb it does not really matter as everything is so familiar. Kids coming into foster homes, and it is not what you expect.Great nature images from New Zealand Another proof that Maori stories from New Zealand can attract a big audience too. Sometime s you wonder whether all the jokes will come through as they are very kiwi Taika Waititi has done it again after "Boy" "What we do in the shadows"
This movie is really good - I have to say I enjoyed it and would probably see it again.
A far more developed example of what Waititi can do as a director and storyteller; the film has examples of pathos, comedy, action, drama, art film, satire, good cinematography and even a few decent VFX shots. His last film, vampire mockumentary "What We Do in the Shadows" was a lot of fun but also a narrative disappointment, despite NZ media committing to expose the film and help generate sales. Something of a misguided indulgence, "Shadows" made the mistake of letting three or four (very) minor indie celebs improvise in digital for many, many hours, then the director tried to create a concrete whole in editing and post. Didn't work. Great intro though.Hunt for the Wilderpeople focuses on the life of Ricky Baker - a young, overweight, orphaned juvenile offender that idealizes hip hop and creates haiku poetry as a method of externalizing emotional conflict, due to the influence of counseling and therapy sessions. Stuck in New Zealand's sub-par youth welfare system (known for endless governmental restructuring with little or no substantive improvement), Ricky ends up on a rotting farm somewhere in the rural back blocks with foster parents.
The film clearly shows elements of the barren, social realist film of early 80s NZ, but with bigger, better cinematography, and Waititi's indie sense of the quirky and offbeat. "Quirky" can become a meaningless attribution in today's market of indie features where anybody and everybody can have a go at being "quirky" to make up for budget and spectacle, but this film also has real nuance and character development, and a quality cast that seem to get the idea of being a bit "quirky" and "meta" without forgetting that emotional investment is what an audience really needs to feel involved with the story. Rachel House is hilarious. So's the director in an excellent cameo.
Some of the early scenes don't read as naturally as they could, and also Tioreore Ngatai-Melbourne's mother in the film is referred to but is never actually seen for unknown reasons. In addition, New Zealanders might complain about the films location improbabilities, but that's been standard practice in US features for years. Cool movie!! Go see it!!
This was a great movie for anyone to see.
Hunt for the Wilderpeople was one of my top movies at Sundance. The film used symbolism expertly. The director was able to convey powerful symbolism through something as small as a rubber water container. It was used as a symbol for home. It showed that in a harsh world full of rejection, what we all really want as humans is to be loved and wanted by other people. This movie shows that even though people can have a hard time trusting others with themselves, relentless love can break down barriers. In the movie, Ricky shows us that even though being truly loved by someone can feel foreign and awkward, once you get a taste of it, you never want to let it go. Through the rubber water container symbol, the film shows that when life circumstances change, we still just want intimate relationships with other people. Although it may appear different on the outside, it will always be similar at its core.
This movie also shows how much our pasts want to dictate our future. We see outcasts of society searching for freedom from who they were, but how people around them are trying to not let that happen. Where they find the most freedom is exactly where society is trying to rip them out of. They would rather keep in the lowest levels of civilization rather than let them have their freedom. Just like with these characters, the world will identify us most by the things we least like about ourselves. Whether it is an addiction, or a mistake we would rather forget, these are the things the world continually wants us to live in rather than finding freedom from them. It is a fight to live in that freedom rather than being dragged down to believing we are still those same people from our pasts. This film shows that freedom is possible. No matter what is in our past, that does not have to be who we are today, but it is a battle. We will have to run, fight, or go against what people around us are telling us to do, but we must seek to live in that freedom. This film is fraught with other symbols and social commentaries. It is at the top of my list of recommendations for people to see.
See this film
I saw this movie last night in Hokitika. There was a queue outside, which caused comment enough amongst the locals, as this never happens. The cinema was packed with an amazing demographic of people, for example, on one side of me were toddlers with their Mums, on the other a lone hunter-type and behind me a group of retired farmer ladies. I think this speaks volumes on the draw of this film. To put it simply, it ticks all the right boxes. Everyone in Aotearoa (NZ) will know these characters in some form or another; from the gruff old bushman, to the earthy mother figure and the chillaxed cop. It is that familiarity that makes it more engrossing and funny. But not just here, its mix of subtle bathos and pathos will make it universally appealing, of that I am certain. In short: Good on ya, Taika! 'Marvellous' film!
Loved it
This was incredibly funny, I loved it, all the actors played their parts well, I laughed Thru 90% and I say 90 because truthfully a few bits hit the feels, but its well worth the watch and the scenery is amazing, nothing like seeing your beautiful country on a big screen, so if your in to minds, set it to the bright side and go watch this you wont regret it, it was good so see Sam Neil again, and can see we are welcoming in a bright new shinning star to our comedy movies, so I feel like NZ has brought out another great film that can me us proud Its a very authentic view of new Zealand, few twist and turns unexpected moment, but don't be afraid to laugh out load you just cant help it
An absolute gem of a film. A must see movie!!!!!
This is such a funny, heartwarming, immensely entertaining, brilliant film for the whole family. I can't wait to go again, and again.... Taika is a genius. The entire cinema clapped when it finished which I've never seen before. It's now my absolute favourite film of all time!! LOVE LOVE LOVE this movie!!!!!!! It is effortlessly funny with a brilliant cast of very talented Kiwi actors. The scenery is of course beautiful because it's set in New Zealand's stunning landscape. Even though there are serious, universal underlying issues within the script they are dealt with in a way that is from the child's innocent perspective so the film remains light and entertaining throughout. If this film doesn't do exceptionally well off shore and get the global recognition it deserves, it will be a travesty.
Perfectly Beautiful and Hilarious
Beautiful story of survival, family and humor, Amazing Cinematography and relatable lovable characters. This film places deep characters and themes in a beautifully visual setting of New Zealand while making it hilariously funny and giving the right amount of action, thought-provoking situations and dialogue to make it a perfect film, Using every possible opportunity to give the audience an emotional and visual pleasure.
The film covers so many aspects of developing emotions while delivering a heart touching laugh your ass off story and never letting the audience either laughing or awing for the story of this cute parent-less fat boy and his journey of running,hiding and surviving though the unique NZ bush and connection to his uncle Heck.
The film allows the audience to leave with the most satisfyingly developed characters and story, while becoming a instant classic and a great showcase of New Zealand as a Country and its potential in the Film Industry.
I consider this to be the best film By Tiki Waititi and there is no wonder why he the writer and director has been chosen to direct the anticipated Thor: Ragnarok of the superhero film genre taking over Hollywood.
Taika's best movie so far
It's too hard to fault Taika Waititi; he's excellent at what he does, and this movie is surely his best yet. The story has serious matters at its heart, and yet it managed to stay well above maudlin at all times, being moving and downright hilarious most of the time.
Also a great spotlight once again on New Zealand's native bush, with many great little nods to Kiwi movies of years gone by. The leads, Sam Neill & Julian Dennison, are wonderful in their roles, and the supporting cast were not far behind.
So much a Kiwi movie and one for all ages, yet it's humour and story will definitely appeal beyond our shores. Go and see it now!
I find it impossible to fault
A brilliant funny movie that still respects the sadness that happens in life but tries to show you that fun and laughter can still be our main focus.
I think this is the best so far of Taika Waititi's films and recommend it to anyone to see. I saw it after a long-tiring week at work and I half expected to nod off in the cinema theatre because I was so tired. But I didn't. I laughed and chuckled most of the way through the film and came away re-energized and very happy I had gone.
Would see again if the opportunity came up, which is likely as most of my friends are raving about it and a few are wanting me to go with them to see it again!
Has heart and is genuinely funny
Taika Waititi is starting to make some real waves in the film making industry. It's as simple as this - every film he makes, people like. In fact, people like them so much he's been trusted with the directorial duties in the next 'Thor' film 'Thor: Ragnarok'. That's big and shows people trust him with making their film. That decision was made prior to the release of 'Hunt for the Wilderpeople' but I can confirm that this film will do his reputation no harm. In fact it's going to do it a lot of good. It's a very fine film and in my opinion his best yet.
I thoroughly enjoyed 'What We Do in the Shadows' but my one qualm with it was I felt it lacked a story to drive the humour. The man learns from his errors fast though and there is no such problem here. The story, while simple, is a driving force and makes sure things never get mundane or boring. Also helping this is a terrific cast of actors. Julian Dennison in the lead role blew me away and showed comedic timing far beyond his years. Sam Neill was as fantastic as ever and every cameo throughout is terrific and hilarious in its own way.
The film not only manages to make us laugh though, it also has a heart. There are some very sad and moving elements to the film which are handled exquisitely by Waititi. He makes us think and sobers us occasionally but never takes us away from the fun time we're having with the story. There's a lot more to the film than I expected going in. It has layers and works on a lot of levels. I can't say enough good things about this film. An absolute pleasure to sit through.
It's the kind of film that you'll be talking about years from now
While Taika Waititi takes over Hollywood with his next two projects: THOR 3: RAGNORAK (2017) and a sequel to his funniest film to date WHAT WE DO IN THE SHADOWS (2014), hysterically entitled WE'RE WOLVES, his latest "little film that could" should put Sam Neil back on the map with a wonderfully gracious performance.
This magical realist New Zealand adventure drops an unloved, rebellious, little fat kid into the wild, wild southwest — and I'm here to say that this was the feel good film of Sundance this year. Luckily writer/director Waititi has held onto his unique dry-humor, which dates back to his debut feature EAGLE VS. SHARK (2007) as well as his underrated second film BOY (2010). But this krazy kids flick is not just satisfied with referencing all of the 1980s films its creator grew up loving: The movie itself is an actual throwback to the kind of children's fare that were laced with some very heavy adult issues like Walter Murch's RETURN TO OZ (1985) and Nicolas Roeg's THE WiTCHES (1990). Make sure to catch this truly loving film upon its initial theatrical release. It's the kind of experience that you'll be talking about years from now, perhaps even sharing with children of your own.
Obviously Our Flag Means Death isn't historically accurate and that's because IT'S NOT SUPPOSED TO BE. It's a comedy for Christ sakes, people writing reviews really need to lighten up.
Every time I see Rhys Darby I think of him as Steve from the TBS show Wrecked which was really funny. He plays Stede Bonnet, the gentleman pirate who left his wife and children to become a pirate. Taika Waititi plays legendary pirate, Blackbeard and I now have a huge crush on him.
This has got to be one of the strangest, most original shows to make it to tv in a while. It's wildly creative and well-written with humor so offbeat you don't often realize you're watching humor. However.... the strangest part of this show is that its set up, instead of being maybe, say, the first ten minutes, actually takes up the entire first two episodes. You have to get to the third episode to understand what the show is going to be about. So, be patient, get past episodes one and two, and then get ready for a wild and weird ride.
Overall this show has very likable and fun characters with a wacky comedy style. The main relationship between Stede and Blackbeard is very well done and each crew member is excellent. This show explores such great themes and it was not at all what I expected from this show during the first 2 episodes. Episode breakdown: Episodes 1-2 are the black sheep of the show. It sets up the rest of the show very well but in the moment while watching it's just not as interesting as the rest of the show and it doesn't reveal exactly what the show is about right away. In hindsight the episodes make the show better overall but they are quite boring by themselves. Episode 3 is very funny and is the exception to the first 2 episodes, it doesn't introduce Blackbeard yet but the episode Itself is a lot more fun and enjoyable. Episodes 4-10 are all very high quality and on similar levels. The show shifts to the relationship between Stede and Blackbeard and all the crew members and it begins to tell the great story, it's funny and heartwarming and definitely worth watching. The ending is a bit of a cliffhanger, a little bittersweet but a second season seems to be teased with it. Overall a very good show that should definitely be watched! 164 out of 185 found this helpful. Was this review helpful? Sign in to vote. Permalink 9/10 Disagree! I think it's great supermellowcali11 March 2022 The silliness of this show works because of the excellent cast, and it gets better through the later episodes imo. It was probably more fun to produce this than to watch, bit it's exactly the kind of effort that audiences should reward- dumb as it is, it's a great break from the stark reality of 2022
I spent the first two weeks watching this show not knowing where it was going. Now that I've watched the entire season, I am more emotionally invested in this show than I've been for a long time. Every character shines onscreen and the chemistry between them all is a delight to watch. Rhys Darby and Taika Waititi acted their hearts out in those final episodes. I need a second season right now. HBO cannot leave it there.
This show is hilarious another hit for Taika Waititi can't wait for more! It's already half way through and I don't want the season to end. HBO has been killing it with comedy's lately.
This is a long term keeper. Each episode gets better than the last. Great mix of heartwarming and hilarious. Taika and Rhys forever. So stunningly creative. Season 2 please!
Having being a huge fan of both Rhys Darby and Taika Waititi sinces the early 2000s, I was super excited when I heard they were co-starring in a new HBO comedy about pirates. Expecting the same brand of hilarious dry Kiwi humour I've come to expect from any collaboration of theirs, I was both delighted and touched to find that this sweetly kind and funny comedy show was also very obviously *a gay love story*, featuring the kind of easy throwaway acceptance of sexuality, gender and diversity that I was shocked to realise I had never seen before on a TV show. To say this sweetly funny, gorgeously shot little show has been a revolutionary step-forward in queer storytelling is not an understatement in the slightest. The outpouring of love and gratitude I've seen online from the LGBTQ+ community for these characters, the showrunner David Jenkins and for Taika and Rhys is unprecedented. The incredible fan-art, the fanfiction (thanks Frenchie!), the sharing of feelings and personal stories and emotions this whole last couple of weeks over social media has been a total trip, and the loveliest part of that has been to see it all held, validated and delighted in by the entire creative team that made the show. I hope HBO Max know that they will be the darlings of the streaming platforms when they renew this for the 2 more seasons (minimum!) that David Jenkins has planned. That announcement can't come soon enough frankly.
I like this show - it's weird, it's funny, but it also has some serious undertones, like not conforming to society's expectations of what a man is supposed to be and the damage caused by bullying. And despite some issue with the language, I think this is a good family show, and there just aren't that many of those around anymore. I am always willing to give anything by Taika Waititi a chance, and I don't think you'll be sorry for spending half an hour a week with this one. I have a feeling this will become a cult classic.
This basically adds the character murray from flight of the concords, into an R rated pirates of the carribean themed generic comedy, with oddball side characters. If you are into that sort of thing you will have a great time, I know I did.
I love the cast! This show is freaking hilarious!! I don't get the bad reviews, but I guess some people don't know good humor! I'd say watch it if you're in to dark comedies. You'll thank me later!
I guess some people don't love this type of comedy. Maybe they don't understand the jokes, who knows? After reading the reviews I was on the fence whether to watch or not. Then I thought I'm not going to trust other peoples opinions, so I watched and laughed... and laughed! I think the show is very funny. Can't wait to watch more! It's quirky characters/ship's crew are all really funny in this high seas tale of adventures and shenanigans!
Brilliant. Absolutely brilliant. Across the board superb cast. Script(s). Storylines. Cinematography. The entire effort is just straight up excellent. Rhys Darby and Taika Waititi.. divine together, and apart, and together. Please, a second, third, fifth season. I will jump off a bridge, balcony... out of a moving car... if we aren't extended. So well worth. Do I appear to be gushing. I am.
This show made me so happy. It was brilliantly and beautifully conceived, and the cast was monumental. I would recommend this to literally everyone, and if Our Flag Means Death doesn't get renewed, I worry for my faith in humanity.
Thank God for Kiwi and Australian Humour. Nuff said really. I pine for any break from the overly manufactured American tripe (which to be honest,I can't even bear to watch anymore), and here it is.
I'm really enjoying every moment of this show! It's got story and a little bit of drama, interwoven with perfect comedic timing and silly moments. The characters are brilliant too. If you're a fan of Taika and Rhys... this show will be right up your alley.
Just give this show a try is it brilliant. Easily my favorite adaptation of Blackbeard I have ever seen. Rhys Darby is splendid and the chemistry and story is hilarious while also very engaging and relatable. Just give it a try. I rewatch it like it's always Sunny in Philadelphia.
This is a great series, high camp, very Kiwi humour and a great ensemble cast and cameos. Taika does it again, and Rhys Darby is hilarious, as are his misfit bunch of "Pirates ". Who cares if it isn't following the facts, it's a comedy. Well written and even better acted.
I don't know what's with all the negative reviews here. This is a quirky, tongue-in-cheek pirate comedy. It doesn't take itself too seriously. Some people just have to find flaws in everything. And no, it's not to drill. Good, silly slapstick with clever dialogue.
Takia Waititi rocks. This is another of his shows that spins a period story on its head. As Blackbeard the pirate, aka Edward Teach, he brings together as funny a cast of characters as ever graced a pirate ship.
Reminded me of Ghosts, another amazing comedy show. If you liked that one, you will love this one too. Very funny and interesting story too. Very cool cast too.
I'm ready on my third watch of this show. It is silly and odd but ultimately a beautiful and very important story to be told. Thank you to everyone involved!
I agree that isn't not amazing but I blame the release strategy. I think the show has promise but would've benefited from a full-season release like Netflix. Releasing three episodes just opens the door for negative feedback too early into the show.
I don't think I fully realized how little representation queer people actually get until I watched this show. It features many queer characters and queer romances that can't be interpreted any other way and aren't made into a joke. Our Flag Means Death is a kickass rom-com and was written directed and performed as exactly that. The show is a fun and deeply touching story about love in all forms, as well as the relationship between destruction and healing. It's written by, for, and about people who aren't frequently given platforms to have their stories told in a lighthearted manner, which is incredibly refreshing to see. I am thrilled about all the directions this story has gone in so far, and I sincerely hope to see it continue to unfold.
A slowish start but once it's finds it's feet (ep3) this is a funny and achingly moving show. Think 'Schitts Creek' with swords, leather pants and the odd sea gull (literally very odd). I loved it. It's unique and provocative and ultimately ....it's all about love.
Awesome series with some awesome casting choices and very clever scripting. This is a great series that never needed to so hard woke that it did. The carry-on innuendo was pulling off the sly giggles while the sharp wit of dialogue provides brain food of the humorous kind. Character development is very clever, interplay and delivery is well thought out, and brilliantly executed and the CGi scenery is magnificently colourful. I see this could almost be the start of a very successful franchise. Loved the cameos and had a belly full of laughs all the way through. Highly recommended.
Whenever a show comes out, I don't do it on person, but I watch scenes where multiple characters are together interacting and I tend to compare to great scenes like the dinner scene from Fleabag season 2 episode 1 and see how the show uses the characters and see how their characteristics and personalities come through and how smart they are set up. This show may not have the crisp excellent standard that The writing in Fleabag flaunts but the writing here is no doubt thoughtful, intelligent & links to so much that comes later in the season, which I enjoy & appreciate. So much can be said about the ensemble cast, what each actor brings, the two main leads, Taika and Rhys and how much they bring & commit to, the journey they take, the multiple arcs that are given time and space, and even the guest appearances are awesome. But it's best to do what I have been doing in the meantime, telling people to go watch it.
End of story. The chemistry for the whole cast is great, the historical nods are great, and it has SO MUCH HEART. I laugh out loud every episode. Well done.
To be honest, I didn't have the highest expectations. The idea and look of It seemed silly, but I will say I was pleasantly surprised. Doesn't take its self too seriously and neither should you.
Rhys Darby has been always funny, since I first saw him as the talent agent in "Flight of the Concords". And many other funny actors pop up throughout, so you will get some good laughs :-) However, the writing is just not as consistently funny as "What We Do In The Shadows" (for which Taika Waitit is also a creator).
I love this show. It's got great actors, humor, unexpected romance, total twist from the usual pirate stuff but damn it's funny and I keep watching over and over again. Can not wait for the next season!!
I have watched the series twice and only now found out that most of the characters were based on real Pirates. Can not believe Stede was real, inept and interacted with Blackbeard. That makes me want to watch it a 3rd time.
After a slow start, Our Flag Means Death becomes one of the most entertaining, engaging and emotional shows to hit the mainstream in years. Seemingly a farcical comedy starring an incompetant pirate, the show soon becomes something filled with heart and deep, complex relationships. Somehow achieving this without compromising the comedy, Our Flag Means Death is a breath of fresh air after years of drama that takes itself too seriously, and comedy that doesn't take itself seriously enough. If the show isn't picked up for a second season it would be a crying shame.
Absolute banger of a show! From the music to the set, the costumes, the characters and their humor, not one single moment of this show is boring! Can't wait for season two! I'm recommending this to everyone I know.
I got through our flag means death in a day. It is a truly brilliant show with an amazing cast, really loveable characters, genuine diversity (both among the cast itself but also in the crew and amongst the writers.) I can see a fair few people saying they "didn't find it funny" and "got bored" and obviously all of this stuff is subjective but, for me, both of those statements couldn't be further from the truth. I laughed, I cried, and, when I reached the end, I underwent the seven stages of grief over the uncertainty of a second season. And I haven't stopped thinking about it since. I'm not a massive television person myself, and I only ever really watch TV if I think there's something special there, and I'm so glad I bothered with this one. There is something about it that is truly so loveable - I think it's because of the amount of love that you can tell went into it? It feels like it was made with the best of intentions, and created by people who truly thought it would do good things - and it has. Shows like this are so important. Shows like this would have changed my life when I was little. I'm so glad that media like Our Flag Means Death exists. Because it will change lives, even in little, almost unnoticeable ways. I couldn't recommend it more - truly.
I thoroughly enjoyed this show! Initially I went into it thinking this would be a silly pirate comedy and on that front they certainly delivered. But Our Flag Means Death offers so much more than that! All the characters have a lot of heart, their own agendas and feel nuanced. There are dark and dramatic moments as well. I found myself rooting for all of them very quickly. It's so refreshing seing male characters show real emotion on TV! I really hope we will get another season to find out how the plotlines resolve!!
From the first episode on I was absolutely hooked. Every single character is very special in their own way. Great character development. Loved the costumes, loved the soundtrack. At first, you think it is a funny comedy but then it also hits you right in the heart. It is also the best love story I have seen in a long time or maybe ever. Don't start it too late at night because you'll have to watch it in one go. This show had everything I'd wish for from a show about pirates. I can not recommend it enough. Would give 12 out of 10 stars if you let me.
Slow to start, but once it gets going after a an episode or two it's undoubtedly charming, full of heart, and a refreshing take on a swashbuckling romp (based loosely on true events) where anyone can feel seen watching. This cast and crew of creators put so much of their own hearts into this show, and you can feel it.
Love it! I've binged it so many times, at least 9. Historically accurate? Bah! Who cares? Just enjoy the vibe, man. Embrace the insanity and the mad dingy skillz everyone seems to have.
Our Flag Means Death is wonderful show with a great cast. I know I've seen some reviews saying that the humor falls flat, and maybe I'm just simple, but I found the entirety of it very enjoyable and entertaining, I never wanted to stop watching it. There are plenty of funny moments, with just enough dark humor as well. As for the reviews offended about the queer representation... Maybe consider that you are not the target audience. Taika has been very vocal that this show is a gift to minorities. That this is a romantic comedy, not a haha silly bromance. If you're sitting there as a cishet person, and you're angry that you don't see yourself here... Look around. There are PLENTY of other shows that cater to you. Give us this much. I will forever be grateful for all that this show has done for the queer community, and I am desperately hoping that we get more of this wonderful show.
The first few episodes are a little slow, though still very enjoyable. This is bad far the best comedy to come out in years. The characters are all amazing and the humor is so well done. Taika has continued to make some of the best films and tv shows in history.
This film was exceptional and one of the best I've seen this year. Watiti has great comedic vision and the cast is phenomenal. Jojo Rabbit was wierd , funny , heartwarming and heartbreaking and I think its definitely worth the watch.
I thought this was bags of fun, who said that satire was a thing of the past, Jojo Rabbit prices that it is alive and well.. It's one of those films that will have you laughing one minute, crying the next, then awkwardly chuckling in the scene after that. It's very well acted, very well made, the production values are actually very, very strong. I saw this on its release with a few friends, it was my choice, faces were pulled at the thought of it, but everyone enjoyed, one quibbled before the film that she thought it was going to be offensive, it isn't, it's all tongue in cheek.
So Taika Waititi is an exceptional director and this is proof of that! I mean who'd take Hitler as an imaginary friend (source material is way more serious apparently, haven't read it) and not just run with it, no pun intended, but make a funny, engaging and heartfelt movie with it? Well the answer lies in front of you and is ready to be enjoyed. Although to be fair, there is not just enjoyment and there are quite a lot of scenes here that will make you cringe to say the least. It is not just about showing violence for what it is (explicit), but also finding a balance with the humor. There is a let's everyone say "Heil" that seems to go forever, but the scene as akward as it is and seems, still works. JoJo Rabbit has a few things that happen in the background or are not really talked about (see Sam Rockwell and his ... "hidden" love, which while obvious is never spoken out literaly) - there are so many little gems in this movie, handled with so much care and dignity, it really is amazing. I know and heard some be offended even before seeing it and never really plan to watch the movie - which is their loss I reckon, but better that way than being offended by something that is widely considered as being funny and as delicate as it can be
For me this film is a total paradox. I have never laughed so hard in one scene and then cried like a baby in the next. It's unique. Go watch.
I've always said that a great ending can elevate your opinion on the film as a whole. Perhaps not completely shift how you feel, but certainly enhance or detract. I was enjoying the ride with Jojo Rabbit for awhile but I was waiting for the film to move me emotionally the way I'd heard it might. The last 15-20 minutes of the movie do just that. Boasting a hilarious script, unique direction from Taika, terrific performances all around, and a message that is as moving as any film this year, Jojo Rabbit is a win on all accounts. And perhaps, just the movie we need at this time. I absolutely adored this film.
JoJo Rabbit is a brilliant and brave attempt by Taika Waititi. This movie is crafted by pure creativity. 'An anti hate satire' is the tagline of the movie and the movie shows the Nazi era difficulties through humour and mind blowing dialogue (most from Scarlett Johansson). This was the year that I realised ScaJoh is an excellent actress. All of the cast was excellent including Roman Griffin Davies, Thomasin McKenzie (who both have a bright future), Taika Waititi, Rebel Wilson and an excellent Sam Rockwell. The fat boy also deserves mentioned. JoJo Rabbit deserves acclaim and more people should see it. I don't know why most of the critics hated it but screw them. Jojo Rabbit deserved that Oscar nod for Best Picture and even though there's no hope for winning it, I'm pretty sure the movie has inspired so much hearts and this movie will discussed in the future.
I loved everything about this movie. Absurdity from these times is captured amazingly, and now, almost a century afterwards, we can take it with some humor. Well done, I hope this movie goes on to win some awards.
It was really nice movie. It made me laugh,it made me sad,it made me think, everything in less than 2 hours. I loved certain scenes of this film. First of all, the track at the beginning was amazing. Second, when Jojo was dancing with his mother, it was really funny and cute to see. I loved the cliques about Jews, they were really funny. I liked caricatured Hitler, he was pretty soft. I wanted to see more of that amazing actress(that we all know - Rebel Wilson), but I liked the idea that this movie was full of Hollywood stars, but they didn't take place from main character - Jojo. I can say, that Jojo is the best young actor that I've seen like in 10 years period, which is very amazing. I put this film in top 10 movies of 2019(in my list) and I highly recommend to everyone watch this movie, it really worth your attention!
What We Do In the Shadows is one of the best new comedies to come out in years, it's actually one of the funniest comedies I've ever seen! I absolutely loved the movie so I thought this was going to be a letdown but boy was I wrong...EVERY episode is great!
Love this show. Great cast and fun show. Colin Robinson is a great character as the energy vampire
I just binged watched all of this first season and I loved it. I was a bit disappointed that the original trio only made a brief appearance alongside some other "movie" vampires but the new cast quickly grew on me. I hope that they will continue to write and explore with this series. Heck, I'd like a series of movies!
It's hard to dislike this show. It has so many gifted and just plain funny actors. It's not gut busting humour, but rather a mellow guffaw. How you can muster enmity against a gloriously silly display like this is beyond me.
This has got to be one of the most hysterically funny comedies on TV. Just as funny as the movie, which is a rarity. For that half hour or so that I'm watching this, I forget all my troubles, it's that indescribably hilarious. I can't decide who is the funniest, everyone is a star. (But Colin Robinson belly dancing for Nandor's ascension day celebration - well, don't get me started. And every time Laszlo says the F word I absolutely lose it. He's a comedy genius).
With time and age the cast writers and directors have only gotten more hilarious. Don't miss it it's one of the best shows currently on tv.
The 2014 film which precedes this is comedy gold and I was initially sceptical that this might be watered-down for a more mainstream TV audience. The location is different and there are new characters, but on the whole it lives up to the high standards set by the movie. The casting is spot-on and the acting flawless. The writing is inspired - this could be any family in any street in any town. Indeed, the appearance of some fairly heavyweight stars would suggest that those in the industry recognise the quality of the scripts. It has all the hallmarks of a cult TV show in the making. There is a ready-made audience of vampire fans of course, but these vamps are just so darn human that the comedy should appeal to anybody who recognises how utterly complex and ultimately insignificant people are.
They've done well maintaining the style of the film with plenty of subtle humour mixed with laugh out loud slapstick in a very Goth way. Obviously life is hard as a vampire in the modern world. My wife loved the utterly boring psychic vampire.
A working class answer to "Interview with the Vampire". Hilarious with a never -ending series of funny situations. Wonderful acting
This series is so on point. Love how they made the translation from the movie over to series. So good that Jemaine from the movie and (Flights of the Concord) is still involved in the production of the series. He is a genius!
I can't believe that they turned a hilarious movie into an even more hilarious TV show. I'm also glad they decided to get new characters out of the series, instead of recasting the same characters from the movie. The addition of a energy vampire in Colin Robinson was definitely a coup. And of course, Guillermo, the familiar, who has quite the family tree! I also enjoy seeing all kinds of horror movie creatures besides just vampires and werewolves. They've had witches, ghosts, zombies, trolls, etc... They're really going all-out for this show. And the guest stars they've had were awesome, especially in that Season 1 finale. Keep up the good work! I cannot wait until Season 3!
As Collin Robinson would probably say. These guys become more of themselves and their quirks every episode! I am obsessed with it all and mostly can't live without Nandja randomly high pitched singing!! The dead sure do know how to make us mortals feel alive! Don't ever stop please.
I had to be tricked into watching the movie and loved it. I had the same misgivings about the TV show but watched and it's somehow better than the movie. One reason I think that the show stand above and apart from the movie is the lag time between them, strangely I think this is also the reason John Krasinki made the transition from sit com co star to Tv action man/ feature movie guy the lag time between the office and action man/ horror movie. I have always loved Matt Berry from the Mighty Boosh, IT Crowd, Toast of London but the Lazlo and Nadia characters and those that portray them are incredible talents that up til now have missed. I have not completely bought in to characters that at this point are in the realm of fantasy since Third Rock from the Sun, so convincing you buy these creatures exist and this is how they would act. So so good.
Best sitcom in last 20 years
I saw the movie and loved it so I was excited to see it was being made into a TV series. I admit I was a little skeptical about whether the show could live up to the movie but it definitely does. It is funny and smart and I loved every single episode.
I prerecorded this and when I couldn't sleep one night, I thought I would watch it with the volume low as to not wake my husband. I ended up going to another room because I found myself laughing out loud-which is rare. Even though there were predictable parts, it still made me laugh-and It takes a lot to make me laugh.
This is without a doubt the funniest show on TV ever. The character depth and plots are brilliantly constructed and delivered. Colin the 'Energy Vampire' is pure genius.
This is a great show, dry humor and absurd scenes. Love it.
If u haven't seen this show or the movie now's the time! They r absolutely hilarious, just dirty enough with the right amount of silliness. This show introduced me to Matt Berry, who in the last year, has made me laugh more than anyone else thanks to his performances in this, Year of the Rabbit, and Toast of London. The entire cast is excellent!
I went in judging because I loved the movie so much but this show is soooo funny. I love the cast. Brilliant like the movie.
I loved the movie but didn't really know if they could pull off a series. But it really works. The characters are all wonderfully bizarre and it really is the strangest show out there.
Beautiful series, so funny, wacky and insane....always makes me laugh out loud....bat!
The humour tickles me just right, and honestly it's constantly giving me a good belly laugh. It's not pretentious and doesn't take itself too seriously. The format of them filming a pretend documentary works really well, because it's a great way to have the characters monologue without it being weird, and you get a lot out of them doing it. It also doesn't do it in a way that looks poorly made. The situations they get themselves in is ridiculous in the best kind of way. There's some great cameos. I love all the characters, I couldn't pick a favourite, because they all really get their moments to shine, and all bring something great to the show. Honestly I love to binge watch this show, and I have done more than once.
It's nothing short of hilarious. I've made so many people watch it and binged it myself half a dozen times. I watched the entire first season in a single day (don't judge me!) Every single character is fantastic and the actors really get into their characters. Nandor is definitely my favorite and Novak plays him perfectly. Colin is the absolute worst and that's exactly what his character should be. It feels like they do a lot of improvising during the show and it works well. IMO, the premise of the show sounds like it could get old fast but nope. It manages to stay fresh and funny. As long as season 2 stays great, I'll rate it a 10.
This us a phenomenal movie has the whole super hero package plus some great humor. An incredible villian played by the flawless Cate Blanchett!! I like this even more than any of the avengers movies. This and guardians of the galaxy are the flagships of the marvel franchise.
I loved every moment of this film. The humour in it was spectacular! The story fun and entertaining with witty lines and great plots. The acting was better then ever with great filming and beautiful scenes! The movie had heart and depth but also humour without rushing the plot, adding the perfect amount of action to keep your eyes glued to the screen. Picking Cate Blanchett to play the goddess of death was brilliant! The woman holds such power and depth that radiates off of her being! Seeing more of Hulk in the film as Hulk himself was also wildely entertaining! Marvel definitely did a great job with this movie!
This movie was unbelievably better than the first two movies and it's not even close. It was funnier, had better action, better effects, just better everything. Although I do think that some of the comedic moments undercut the dramatic ones, which is a little frustrating, but it doesn't sour my thoughts about the movie in any way. I also love how they incorporated Hulk into the story and he and Thor's relationship throughout the movie. Overall, this is easily the best movie of the Thor trilogy, and is a great precursor to Infinity War.
The cast for Thor Ragnarok are all matched well, and the sibling chemistry between Tom Hiddleston and Chris Hemsworth is as natural as can be. Cate Blanchett as Hela, the goddess of death is frightening in her cruelty as well as physical perfection. But, the reason this movie stands alone is the multi talented Taika Waititi, the director of the film. His offbeat New Zealand style shows in every scene, humor throughout and a rocking 80s electronica soundtrack, the film will transport you as fast as Heimdall and the Bitfrost!
Riot of laughter. Mom and wife and grandmother Mary really enjoyed it. Thoe is a funny man
I loved it. I am a big fan of stand-up comedy and this one really delivered. My baby and I often go to comedy clubs, we watch Colbert and Kimmel and even reruns of Carson on TV. Ragnarock really rocked it. Most of the jokes stuck and they were delivered with fantastic comic timing in perfect deadpan. More of the same please.
Each character's flattening degree in the story is beyond imagination. Marvel seems to use a big party to go beyond its boundaries, but in fact, it just wraps the boundaries more and more tightly. It constantly provides the audience with what we want to see, without any challenge. It's not about serving the audience anymore.
Very childish humor, boring fighting scenes and an uninteresting plot. Another very unmemorable superhero movie for me. There's absolutely nothing different about this than the other ones. Thor is trying to save his planet Asgard while trying really hard to be funny.
This movie is a blast. It's also one of the best Marvel movies from a visual standpoint. Puts the other Thor movies to shame!
Being the 17th instalment into the Marvel Cinematic Universe (MCU), and the third in the solo-Thor series—generally the least liked within the MCU—it wouldn't be surprising if this cosmic adventure showed signs of repetition and fatigue. It doesn't, not one bit. The opposite is true in fact, thanks to the unique energy and ingenuity brought from New Zealand director Taika Waititi (Hunt for the Wilderpeople, What We Do in the Shadows). Waititi's comedy background is noticeably in full swing, the previously darker Thor outings traded in for a laugh-heavy vibe closer to Guardians of the Galaxy – the movie Ragnarok shares top spot with, as the MCU's funniest film. A throwaway gag about scissors from a side character made of rock (mo-capped and viced by the director himself) is pure Waititi, and the franchise's best one-liner since Chris Pratt's Starlord appreciated the artwork of Jackson Pollock. Of course a big budget means big action, and there's plenty here to thrill and delight: a tone-setting smack down of a fiery underworld demigod, a bruising gladiatorial contest between Thor (Chris Hemsworth) and Hulk (Mark Ruffalo), an exhilarating spaceship chase, and the breathtakingly electric finale. This threequel is visually distinct too, Waititi opting for a grungy-disco 80s atmosphere over the more theatrical opulence of the first two Thor flicks. His use of slow-mo, backed to Led Zeppelin's 'Immigrant Song', for two key moments, is simply brilliant. Supporting Hemsworth, who has never been better as the macho God of Thunder, is Tom Hiddleston as fan favourite bad-good guy Loki, Cate Blanchett as the sneering God of Death Hela, Tessa Thompson as the cocky warrior Valkyrie and Jeff Goldblum as the eccentric Grandmaster, plus a raft of awesome cameos. A few minor nit picks: Idris Elba seems bored as the returning Heimdall, two previous major supporting characters (both females) are conspicuously absent, a talking Hulk doesn't quite work, and the narrative-retcon work could've been more subtle. But when a movie is this damn entertaining, a few quibbles are easily forgiven. Comfortably taking its place in the top echelon of MCU films, Thor: Ragnarok is hilarious, invigorating and popcorn-blockbustering of the highest order.
Two previous films about Thor weren't good, these films were boring and dark. After changing the director to Taika Waititi, the situation turns to 180 degrees. Firstly, the plot is interesting, it shows another adventure of God of Thunder and his struggle with new sibling. Also this film has a lot of good jokes and twisted moments, so it cathes the viewer. Secondly, the cast is great, Chris Hemsworth and Tom Hiddleston are amazing, and Cate Blanchett is great as villain. Thirdly, the visual effects are wonderful, and music finishes the atmosphere of craziness. So, it's awesome film and the best about Thor
Great film all round, love the use of Dr Strange and the Hulk in this film and the story overall is really good. Thor and Loki together are just brilliant. Really good element of comedy that doesn't take away from the film.
I thoroughly enjoyed this movie.It is the perfect popcorn film that's full of entertainment and great special effects.
This film is amazing. I definitely feel like this film was a big improvement over the first two "Thor" films. It had a great story and it was cool how you got to see Hulk in this film. This is definitely one of my favorite films in the MCU and I would say it is the most surprising film of 2017.
Probably one of the worst movies I've ever paid to watch. Plot was predictable and corny and Hulk was an unnecessary addition to an already poorly written cast. The main Villain.....I can't even remember her name she was so bad, was potentially the worst villain in comic movie history. If you're under the age of 10 or like poorly written movies then this is for you.
Thor Ragnarok is an absolute ball of a film: it's the MCU's most enjoyable film since the first Guardians of the Galaxy film, and doesn't focus too much on sequel building like previous MCU films. Ragnarok is the kind of film that will appeal to even the most ardently cynical critics of superhero movies; it's stupid but it relishes in its self-aware sense of joy and fun. Ragnarok is eons ahead of Thor: The Dark World in my eyes, and is even better than the first Thor. It's one of those rare 'threequels' that's better than the films which came before it. And considering how supposedly 'formulaic' people are starting to perceive the MCU films, that's saying a lot of great stuff about this movie. Thor: Ragnarok has the mythological scale of something like The Lord of the Rings, the over-the-top fun of Richard Donner's Superman movies, and the extra sprinkling of The Hulk in a gladiator costume to top all this insanity off in a perfectly gorgeous combo. Oh, and it accomplishes the other-world-liness of films like The Star Wars Trilogy. Thor: Ragnarok is the Thor film I've been waiting for easily. It uses the character in a way that we unfortunately had to wait several films for to justify this payoff, but I promise you the payoff is surprisingly satisfying.
I wasn't too keen on the Thor movies that came fire although I loved the character. Ragnarock showed once again that Marvel Universe was the best series of movies ever released
Thor: Ragnarok is coming out at a time where people are starting to ask if we have reached comic book fatigue. To that, Thor: Ragnarok puts a big cross through that thought. Thor changes the game. We can't get tired of a sub-genre when the films keep reinventing themselves every time. Ragnarok is a blast start to finish. If you are someone who liked laughing, then you will have a smile from start to finish. Every bit of humour hits and if you are an Australian like me, you will get a kick out of a few jokes. If Ragnarok was a chain, there would not be a weak link. While some links are weaker than others, there is no outright weak part of the film. Everything was at the minimum, just solid. Every character felt like like they were used close to their potential. Every actor and actress put in the performance they needed. You felt like 99% of characters were done perfectly. The only slight complaint that can be had about characters in this film was the villain of Hella. Like most Marvel villains, she is terrifically performed by Kate Blanchett and she is a force when she needs to be, but by the time Black Panther comes around next year, she will be quite forgettable. What they did do well with her however was use her to set up some terrific Thor history. As mentioned, the humour was outstanding, and I think that comes down to Taika Waititi. While he didn't get a writing credit on the film, you know by the style of the humour that he had a lot of input into what was happening on screen. While still on Taika, his directing was fantastic. There are some shots in this film that I want as a wallpaper because they are look like they should be paintings. The action was shot really well, the emotional moments had an intimate to them and of course the wide shots of the landscapes were brilliant. Something I really noticed this is the use of the music. They really tapped into the Guardians music style and it worked so well with what was happening on screen. They had a nice balance of using songs when needed but working in score when it is much needed. Ragnorok is a film that if you are going to have a problem with something, chances are it is going to be something personal. For me, what stood out as a negative was the pacing, however that comes of the back of a massive positive. This film is trying to balance two stories that could have easily been a film separately, and does a really good job of it, however I felt as though the Ragnorok story line did feel a bit short changed at the end. They weave the two stories well but at the end of the day, Thor can only be present in one story at a time. Overall, Thor: Ragnorok is a blast from start to finish. It captured the humour and light hearted fun that the first Guardians had and took it to a level you wouldn't of been able to think of. Taika Waititi was by far the stand out of the film both infront and behind the camera, and it couldn't have been achieved without him. As mention, if the film was a chain, the weakest link would still be over 90% strong.
No this is not a movie. Oversimplistic plot, zero character development, zero acting. Why did they bring all this great actors? for nothing! Why did they need oscars' Kate Blanchett for a superficial villain who just kills a few people? What did the presence of Matt Damon, Benedict Cumberbatch, Karl Urban added to the movie? Nothing! A few scenes, a few lines to make a couple of jokes and that's it. Idris Elba could bring some dramatic effect, but no. I can go like that for the rest. Yes some images are beautiful (although much less than previous movie, the pair Thor - Loki had some nice opportunities, but even them seemed too fake, too one-liners, too child acting. Even when delivering some 1st grade jokes they did it so badly. Marvel continues its own Ragnarok. Maybe they target the youngest audience in purpose to ensure future gains, or the silliest. Just look at the positive reviews, they either venerate Marvel as a perfect God, or their reviews are similar to the movie's cheesy lines on simplistic arguments.
This film is aimed at a child and adolescent audience eager for jokes and a rhythm supported by the hero's hardships and the presentation of characters that without adding anything to the story at least make them smile. If I had to define a film by the sensation it leaves on the retinas, I would say that it is a film that is impossible to see twice, but that it fairly fulfills its function of entertaining. It is a forgettable pastime but at the end of the day it entertains.
Thor must stop Ragnarök! It's back again: The Marvel machine. Pumping out more and more movies for you. This movie is what you expect. It's a fun, enjoyable party. It's difficult to hate it, because you realize the movie itself isn't taking things that seriously. This time around they are more self-aware than usual. I liked that addition. It's true that we are so many movies in and you question when it will get tiresome. But to my surprise they shape-shifted the franchise again and got out on top. I never expected that I would like a third "Thor" film as much as I did. It's unexpected, but I'm so glad they took some chances by not making the same movie again. If you've had a stressful week or just a bad day, then you will not have a good time watching something that's too dramatic. That's when something like "Ragnarok" steps in. It's a nice refresher. Forget your problems for an hour and follow Thor while he jumps around with 80s synth music. The first act is basically a classic "Thor" sequel. But things pick up as soon as our hero lands on Sakaar, and the film enters an edgy science fiction zone. It's funny, full of great jokes. It's distracting at first because its obvious how much the humor has been turned up compared to some previous chapters. I easily started enjoying it though. Everyone had fun making this movie and that fun feeling transcends to me as well. Cate Blanchett's Hela is one of those scenery chewing villains. It's classic, but whenever we cut back to her it does feel like an entirely different film. Like with "Homecoming", I enjoyed the character interaction scenes more than the action. The final battle feels like an easy training match. It's like we are on autopilot, but then again we get some neat visual elements. Every supporting character is great for this story. The Hulk, Loki, Grandmaster, Valkyrie.. They are all like-able. Jeff Goldblum is playing himself and its fantastic for what it is. Also, the director of the movie plays one of the best new characters. There really isn't much that I can add to the things that everyone else already is saying. It would sound that I'm just repeating every other review for this film. The truth is that "Ragnarok" is a very laid-back watch with some retro feels sprinkled in just the right scenes. Know this though; It doesn't strive to become emotionally engaging or inspirational in any way. It won't hit you in the feels as they say. But it's a funny space party where every friend is included and appreciated.
This us a phenomenal movie has the whole super hero package plus some great humor. An incredible villian played by the flawless Cate Blanchett!! I like this even more than any of the avengers movies. This and guardians of the galaxy are the flagships of the marvel franchise.
The best movie for a separate character from a Marvel movie is a very funny movie even though the villain is frustrated. After you smashed Thor's hammer, you didn't do the big thing.
I loved every moment of this film. The humour in it was spectacular! The story fun and entertaining with witty lines and great plots. The acting was better then ever with great filming and beautiful scenes! The movie had heart and depth but also humour without rushing the plot, adding the perfect amount of action to keep your eyes glued to the screen. Picking Cate Blanchett to play the goddess of death was brilliant! The woman holds such power and depth that radiates off of her being! Seeing more of Hulk in the film as Hulk himself was also wildely entertaining! Marvel definitely did a great job with this movie!
This movie was unbelievably better than the first two movies and it's not even close. It was funnier, had better action, better effects, just better everything. Although I do think that some of the comedic moments undercut the dramatic ones, which is a little frustrating, but it doesn't sour my thoughts about the movie in any way. I also love how they incorporated Hulk into the story and he and Thor's relationship throughout the movie. Overall, this is easily the best movie of the Thor trilogy, and is a great precursor to Infinity War.8.5/10.
The cast for Thor Ragnarok are all matched well, and the sibling chemistry between Tom Hiddleston and Chris Hemsworth is as natural as can be. Cate Blanchett as Hela, the goddess of death is frightening in her cruelty as well as physical perfection. But, the reason this movie stands alone is the multi talented Taika Waititi, the director of the film. His offbeat New Zealand style shows in every scene, humor throughout and a rocking 80s electronica soundtrack, the film will transport you as fast as Heimdall and the Bitfrost!
Riot of laughter. Mom and wife and grandmother Mary really enjoyed it. 
Thoe is a funny man
What a fantastic slapstick comedy. It has it all. The jokester, the fool, the jester and the one-liners.
Hail Thor! Hail Marvel! Hail Disney!!
Thor: Ragnarok has been touted as the bezt film in the Thor trilogy, and it's not hard to see why. Taking over from Kenneth Branagh and Alan Taylor, Taika Waititi adds a touch of weird to the God of Thunder's adventures. Add Taika's unique, zany style to a fun story, fun characters, and plenty of action, and we've got a memorable conclusion to Thor's solo series.This movie follows Thor as he is tossed from Asgard all the way to the planet Sakaar and forced to compete in a tournament for his freedom. With the help of his brother Loki, newcomer Valkyrie (Tessa Thompson), and his fellow Avenger the Hulk, Thor must fight his way back to Asgard and stop his sister Hela (Cate Blanchett) from taking it over and bringing about Ragnarok, the end of all things. All the principle cast members from the previous Thor movies return, and other cast members include Jeff Goldblum, Benedict Cumberbatch, and Karl Urban.Ragnarok marks a pretty big shift in tone from the previous Thor movies, in that it takes itself far less seriously and pretty much plays everything for a laugh. The movie basically pokes fun at itself and pretty much every other MCU movie. In other words, it's a very meta movie. Even the characters don't really take anything seriously; they basically play it like it's nothing they haven't seen before, which is pretty much true.I'm sure that some were disappointed that Natalie Portman's Jane didn't return, and may find the tone shift jarring, but it doesn't bother me too much. Plus, we've got plenty of newer characters to make up for Jane's absence. Tessa Thompson is great as Valkyrie, who's a very goofy warrior with a drinking problem. Beneath the alcoholism, though, lies some deep trauma and a complicated past. Jeff Goldblum plays the Grandmaster, who's basically Jeff Goldblum in a brightly-colored robe. He has many funny moments, and I wouldn't mind seeing him again in the future. And Taika Waititi gets to play a character named Korg, a rock-monster who's very funny and becomes an instant favorite.Hela is a pretty inventive villain. Some retconning is done to fit her into Thor's history, but it works pretty well. Blanchett's performance is excellent, as she gets to villain it up while wearing a pointy crown on her head, which is basically her hair when she slicks it back. She's also able to conjure up weapons from her arms, making her unpredictable against Thor. Karl Urban plays her henchman Skurge, and while he isn't the most threatening bad guy, he also gets moments of hilarity and nuance here.Chris Hemsworth is given a chance to explore Thor's wackier side, and it works to great effect. Thor gets several funny moments in this movie, especially with his partners-in-crime. He has several moments with Loki that are especially a riot. Speaking of Loki, he's a standout as always, and this time it's not to the detriment of the other characters. The Thor/Loki relationship is explored further in Ragnarok, and it leads to Thor accepting that maybe his relationship with his brother will never be the way he imagined.Ragnarok partially adapts the Marvel Comics storyline Planet Hulk, and the Hulk himself is utilized more than he has been in the past. The Hulk is given a bigger role, as we begin to see the conflict between Hulk and Banner really present itself. It doesn't hurt that the Hulk is now able to actually speak, and he gets several great one-liners. The movie also gives Thor and Banner more interaction than in past Avengers movies, and it's fun to watch them team up. Benedict Cumberbatch turns in a brief-but-fun cameo as Doctor Strange; he doesn't play a huge role in the grand scheme of things, but it's still fun to see him one last time before Infinity War.It's not all goofiness in Ragnarok; at the heart of it all is Thor accepting his role as King of Asgard, and his desire to live up to his father Odin's legacy has formed the backbone of his arc in the MCU. And things begin to take a dark turn by the time the credits roll....
We had our 5 year old and 3 year old see it today. It was great! They loved it. It kept their attention the whole time. They got the humorous parts and it told a pretty common story like Nickleodeon or Sunday morning cartoons. It wasn't too cheesy for us adults either. Although our family does celebrate good family movies together once a week, I think children of all faiths can enjoy this movie. It's not too preachy nor does it push any "religious agenda." from heathens.
I loved it. I am a big fan of stand-up comedy and this one really delivered.
My baby and I often go to comedy clubs, we watch Colbert and Kimmel and even reruns of Carson on TV. Ragnarock really rocked it.
Most of the jokes stuck and they were delivered with fantastic comic timing in perfect deadpan.
More of the same please.
Each character's flattening degree in the story is beyond imagination. Marvel seems to use a big party to go beyond its boundaries, but in fact, it just wraps the boundaries more and more tightly. It constantly provides the audience with what we want to see, without any challenge. It's not about serving the audience anymore.
Very childish humor, boring fighting scenes and an uninteresting plot. Another very unmemorable superhero movie for me. There's absolutely nothing different about this than the other ones.Thor is trying to save his planet Asgard while trying really hard to be funny.
When the long-banished, not-known-to-exist first-born of Odin(Hopkins, whose parody of himself, as well as his somber take, are both great), his daughter Hela(Blanchett, delicious, loving every moment, and making for another one of the few and far between deeply memorable villains of the franchise) returns to Asgard, her tremendous powers and thirst for conquest mean Thor(Hemsworth going for dry, sarcastic wit, and it works) and Loki(yet again in a new personal situation with his family, albeit overall, he does little to affect what happens) have to stop her. However, they're stuck in Sakaar, prisoners of the dictator The Grandmaster(Goldblum, with his charm turning threatening from one second to the next). And then our titular hero is made to fight the gladiatorial champion – The Hulk(Ruffalo getting to expand the role's vocabulary, personality, and tragedy/pathos – albeit not far enough. It doesn't extend to properly exploring what he's been doing, fighting beings no match for him, previously invariably to the death, despite him leaving Earth was literally specifically to flee this exact thing. They stopped short of where the comic went with it, sadly. The supporting players are appreciated, though).This trilogy has gotten a lot of criticism from the onset, some of it deserved, a lot of it borne out of the natural difficulties with making this kind of world work, especially within the gritty, realistic one Iron Man set up. In this entry, Earth is nearly completely absent, and certainly the only human who has screen-time is Dr. Strange, who is also "beyond". Yes, Jane Foster, Darcy and Erik Selvig are gone. Broken up off-screen. I hate that. However, with this newfound freedom, this goes full cosmic. The tone approaches Guardians of the Galaxy. It's superior to Vol. 2, but not up to the level of the original. Honestly, a few minor things seem to be there specifically to redo that, and they'd be better left on the cutting room floor. The jokey subversion/drama mix is not as strong as that, nor of the third Robert Downey Jr. solo picture. With that said, relatively little of the actual weight is lost to laughs. This still has gravity and tension. The action is fast, frequent and enjoyable, if also by far the most MCU aspect of this. Many will find this to be bland, not fun, a corporate product. Certainly, there's still a lot of room for diversity and flavor. Fingers crossed that Black Panther will push the envelope there.I recommend this to anyone who finds the trailers appealing. You can go into this completely blind. Stay through the credits. 8/10
Thor: Ragnarok is the third standalone Thor movie and the fifth film in Phase 3 of the Marvel Cinematic Universe. Directed by Taika Waititi (Hunt for the Wilderpeople), this installment gives the Thor films a much needed jolt of life that was lacking greatly in its two predecessors.Two years after the events of Avengers: Age of Ultron, Thor (Chris Hemsworth) finds himself imprisoned on a distant planet where he is forced to do battle in a gladiatorial duel against his former friend, The Hulk (Mark Ruffalo). Meanwhile, Thor's home realm of Asgard is under attack by the powerful Hela (Cate Blanchett), who plans to bring it to an end during the oncoming apocalyptic event known as Ragnarok.Considering how bleak and serious the first two Thor films were (mainly the second film), Thor: Ragnarok thankfully takes a different route by injecting more humour and colour into the story to become one of the most fun and entertaining films in the MCU to date. All of the film's comedic moments worked well, and didn't feel as though they were just inserted for the sake of generic comic relief. Another issue I feel is that the original two focused too much on Loki (Tom Hiddleston), making us forget that Thor was supposed to be the main character. Thankfully, Loki, while still having an important and amusing role in the story, is merely a supporting character and Thor himself is given the proper development needed to move the film along nicely. As with all films in the MCU, be sure to stay after the credits for two bonus scenes.I rate it 8/10
This movie is a blast. It's also one of the best Marvel movies from a visual standpoint. Puts the other Thor movies to shame!
Hello pre-teens Marvel/Disney has another one for you!!!
So if you loved Cinderella and watched the entire DVD collection of Little pony and are currently watching Arthur every morning as you eat your Cheerios then Marvel is here for you.
It is called Ragnasuck.
It is funny, it is spoofy, it teaches you about another land and it has nothing whatsoever to do with action, mythology, metaphors or Thor!
It's hard to know how Thor acolytes will feel about the God of Thunder's latest solo adventure, with New Zealand director Taika Waititi turning the previous Shakespearian meets modern day blockbuster like first two outings on their heads with his laughter focused/80's infused action comedy that is likely to appeal to a broader audience while also alienating some hard-core fans in the process.It's not like Thor from 2011 and Dark World from 2013 are exactly overly well-loved properties, Thor the character finding a broader appeal and resonance in the Avenger films, but Waititi's departure from what has come before is one of the greatest change of paces for a series I've ever seen.Gathering a passionate if small fan base from his work directing films Boy, What We Do in the Shadows and the critical smash Hunt for the Wilderpeople, those that have adored Waititi's work on a small budget will be pleased to know his oddball sense of humour and playful directing is still well and truly in-tact with a Marvel budget behind his every wish and imaginative idea.Barely taking a chance to catch a breath over 2 hours of runtime, Waititi throws the audience headfirst into Thor's newest life or death outing as the muscled god with a freshly minted haircut (courtesy of a particularly excited hairdresser) finds himself trying to escape Sakaar, a planet run by Jeff Goldblum's camp Grandmaster all the while dealing with his dastardly adopted brother Loki, his angry green friend Hulk/Bruce Banner and most pressingly Cate Blanchett's new villainess Hela, who has taken over Thor's home world of Asgard.It's a multi-stranded plot line but it's all there as an excuse and fodder for Waititi to showcase a new side of Thor whose grown into himself and learnt more about the universe from his time on Earth, as well as a reason to team Hemsworth with Mark Ruffaloo's Hulk as the two share a great on screen chemistry as mismatched friends.As to be expected with a Waititi film, the characters and humour are what makes his features resonate with audiences around the world and he gifts Hemsworth his best take on Thor yet while newcomers to the series Tessa Thompson as feisty warrior and likely fan favourite Valkyrie, Waitit himself doing the voice of rock fighter Korg, Goldblum as Grandmaster and Blanchett as lead antagonist Hela all fair well, clearly having a blast with Waititi's wacky and often inventive situations and executions.As fun and visually captivating as most of Waititi's movie is, Ragnarok still struggles to bring the narrative arc of the story full circle and with Waititi still undoubtedly needing to mould his film into what lays ahead for the Marvel universe, as a whole the final section of the film suffers from a rather forgettable and bland finishing act that feels incredibly lacklustre to what has come before it.Caught up also with the arc of Thor being on Sakaar, Waititi struggles to make the most of Blanchett's Hela and her whole period on Asgard never really gets out of first gear and it becomes an arguable statement that perhaps Waititi took on board to much at once and sections of the film feel the pressure from so many things going on at once.Final Say – Ragnarok is Thor gone wild, a film that's an over the top colourful mash-up of 80's stylings, action tics while on a constant search for the next punch-line.A Marvel experience that will once more light up the international box office and become a quick-fire audience favourite, there's not a lot of lasting appeal to Waititi's film other than the likelihood of it being a guilty pleasure of the Marvel film series but it's one of the years silliest and sensory overloading blockbusters that provides a great bang for your buck adventure and more laughs in a single scene than most mainstream comedies could conjure up in an entire runtime.3 ½ eager hairdresser's out of 5
I'm neither a Marvel fan, nor (in particular) a Thor fan.. but I have to admit "Thor: Ragnarok" was brilliant from beginning to end. Thor (Chris Hemsworth) has been travelling the universe in search of stuff (I neither remember nor care) but returns to his home planet of Asgard with a dire warning of impending 'Raganrok': this being the 'End of Days' for Asgard. But he finds the court engaged in serious leisure time!Things go from bad to worse when Hela (Cate Blanchett, "Carol") – someone with more than a passing relationship to Thor – arrives with a mission to assume the throne. Teamed uncomfortably with half-brother Loki (Tom Hiddleston, "High Rise"), the brothers get cast millions of light years away to a planet lorded over by a 'grand master' (a lovely performance, that I will leave anonymous here) who pits new gladiators in an arena against his latest champion. You'll never guess who his champion is? Well, OK (cos the trailer gives it away) he's big and green! The film's script is hilarious. It generates an enormous volume of entertainment with laugh-out loud moments throughout; the unforeseen involvement of other Marvel characters; some startling cameos all mixed with the usual brand of spectacular fights and action. Some of the action is surprising: a real eye-opener you might say.The lead cast (Hemsworth, Hiddleston, Blanchett and Ruffalo) all perform admirably and are joined by heavyweight cameos from Anthony Hopkins ("Westworld") and Idris Elba ("Bastille Day") reprising their roles from "Thor: The Dark World". Particularly impressive is Tessa Thompson ("Creed") as Thor's Valkyrie warrior side-kick and Karl Urban ("Star Trek: Into Darkness") as the turn-coat Asgardian Skurge.Directed by young New Zealander Taika Waititi (behind last year's successful indie hit "Hunt for the Wilderpeople") it's a breath of fresh air for the Thor franchise, more similar to the style of "Guardians of the Galaxy" rather than the previous films in the series. Waititi also saves all the best comedy lines for himself as the 'rock warrior' character Korg: his New Zealand twang delivering just side- splitting dialogue. As with most Marvel films, its a little bit flabby in places, running to 130 minutes: some of the dialogue, particularly scenes between Hemsworth and Ruffalo, feel like they needed tightening up in the editing suite. This time of course includes the scrolling of endless teams of visual effect artists in the closing titles which – naturally – 90% of the audience stay for to see if there are any "monkeys". In fact,there are two: one fairly early on; the other right at the end. (To be honest, I thought neither of them was particularly worth waiting for). However overall the movie is highly recommended for a fun night out at the cinema. By the way, this is a film best viewed cold if someone tries to tell you the surprises, cut them off quick!(Thor (sic) the full graphical review, please visit bob-the-movie- man.com. Thanks!).
Being the 17th instalment into the Marvel Cinematic Universe (MCU), and the third in the solo-Thor series—generally the least liked within the MCU—it wouldn't be surprising if this cosmic adventure showed signs of repetition and fatigue. It doesn't, not one bit. The opposite is true in fact, thanks to the unique energy and ingenuity brought from New Zealand director Taika Waititi (Hunt for the Wilderpeople, What We Do in the Shadows). Waititi's comedy background is noticeably in full swing, the previously darker Thor outings traded in for a laugh-heavy vibe closer to Guardians of the Galaxy – the movie Ragnarok shares top spot with, as the MCU's funniest film. A throwaway gag about scissors from a side character made of rock (mo-capped and viced by the director himself) is pure Waititi, and the franchise's best one-liner since Chris Pratt's Starlord appreciated the artwork of Jackson Pollock. Of course a big budget means big action, and there's plenty here to thrill and delight: a tone-setting smack down of a fiery underworld demigod, a bruising gladiatorial contest between Thor (Chris Hemsworth) and Hulk (Mark Ruffalo), an exhilarating spaceship chase, and the breathtakingly electric finale. This threequel is visually distinct too, Waititi opting for a grungy-disco 80s atmosphere over the more theatrical opulence of the first two Thor flicks. His use of slow-mo, backed to Led Zeppelin's 'Immigrant Song', for two key moments, is simply brilliant. Supporting Hemsworth, who has never been better as the macho God of Thunder, is Tom Hiddleston as fan favourite bad-good guy Loki, Cate Blanchett as the sneering God of Death Hela, Tessa Thompson as the cocky warrior Valkyrie and Jeff Goldblum as the eccentric Grandmaster, plus a raft of awesome cameos. A few minor nit picks: Idris Elba seems bored as the returning Heimdall, two previous major supporting characters (both females) are conspicuously absent, a talking Hulk doesn't quite work, and the narrative-retcon work could've been more subtle. But when a movie is this damn entertaining, a few quibbles are easily forgiven. Comfortably taking its place in the top echelon of MCU films, Thor: Ragnarok is hilarious, invigorating and popcorn-blockbustering of the highest order.
This film tells the story of the God of Thunder, who is trapped on a waste planet and has to win a tournament in order to gain back his freedom. In the meantime, he has to race against time to stop an evil force destroying Asgard.Perhaps inspired by the success of "Deadpool", "Thor: Ragnarok" has comedic elements beefed way up. It gets to a point where I think there is too much comedy and not enough heroic demeanor. Fortunately, the balance of comedy and heroic action is successfully struck by the middle of the film. The jokes in the second half of the film induces giggles, but do not distract viewers from the story. The story is intense and the visuals are great. Cate Blanchett is stylish and yet chill inducing in her new look and feel that I have not seen in any of her previous film. I feel a little sad about what happens to the main character, and I wish it did not turn out that way. I enjoyed watching it, even though I wish the superhero elements is emphasised more.
Two previous films about Thor weren't good, these films were boring and dark. After changing the director to Taika Waititi, the situation turns to 180 degrees. Firstly, the plot is interesting, it shows another adventure of God of Thunder and his struggle with new sibling. Also this film has a lot of good jokes and twisted moments, so it cathes the viewer. Secondly, the cast is great, Chris Hemsworth and Tom Hiddleston are amazing, and Cate Blanchett is great as villain. Thirdly, the visual effects are wonderful, and music finishes the atmosphere of craziness.
So, it's awesome film and the best about Thor
Great film all round, love the use of Dr Strange and the Hulk in this film and the story overall is really good. Thor and Loki together are just brilliant. Really good element of comedy that doesn't take away from the film.
I thoroughly enjoyed this movie.It is the perfect popcorn film that's full of entertainment and great special effects.
After Spider-Man: Homecoming and Guardians of the Galaxy Vol. 2, it is time for Thor: Ragnarok to try and finish a very positive year for the Marvel Cinematic Universe (MCU), in great fashion.I find the previous Thor movies very interchangeable, they are not exactly great films, but they are still entertaining and enjoyable. However, Thor: Ragnarok elevates that same entertainment to a whole other level ... This is one of the funniest (!) and best movies of the entire universe.Opposed to the previous installments of the series, this one is tonally very different. The amount of comedy implemented in the screenplay and the outstanding humor make this film surprisingly hilarious and extremely fun. It is definitely a marvelous time at the theater and money very well spent.Taika Waititi's (Hunt for the Wilderpeople) fantastic direction is all over the movie. He is able to achieve a flawless balance between comedy, drama and action, something that most directors have trouble with. Consequently, the pacing feels incredibly controlled throughout the whole runtime. The 130 minutes fly like the blink of an eye and the film never has a dull moment, but it still slows down when it needs to, without becoming boring.Waititi also applies a very interesting, intriguing and unconventional way of storytelling, which truly helps the movie carry itself since the overall narrative isn't really unusual. The visual effects and cinematography are both remarkable but in the last act, the action requires a lot of CGI, which becomes too heavy in some brief moments. Due to the mostly fictional Asgard in the background, when the CGI isn't perfect, it feels like a video game ... Thankfully, I am just nit-picking a couple of shots that, in the end, didn't bother me at all.Eric Pearson's writing is distinctly exceptional with extremely hilarious lines and quite few exposition scenes (the ones that exist don't feel forced at all, except for one or two very concise bits). I believe that he is responsible for a big part of this film's sense of uniqueness and creativity, considering he provides excellent scripts for every character, upgrading each and every one of them and obtaining a more exciting movie.As for the cast, I just need to once again praise Marvel for its amazing choices, they keep nailing every single actor and actress they introduce to the MCU. Cate Blanchett is unbelievable! She is such a wonderful actress that she can portray a super cliché villain like Hela (Marvel's "default" villains are something that I honestly hope Thanos can change) and bring a whole other dimension to the character. Thanks to her and an extraordinary script, Hela does not feel like (what could very well have been) a cheap villain.Tessa Thompson is another brilliant casting. Valkyrie adds a new layer of comedy and sass to the film, but her backstory is what gives both herself and Blanchett's character a bit more of depth. The surprise of the whole movie is Korg, a Kronan fighter portrayed by the one and only ... Taika Waititi! You are right, the director of Thor: Ragnarok has the funniest performance of the film! I am far from joking, his lines almost steal the whole show, there isn't a single scene with Korg where I didn't laugh like crazy. It is going to be the audience's favorite, without a doubt.As for the superstars, Chris Hemsworth proves that he is a perfect Thor. Both his acting and body shape are excellent for the portrayal of a god, he is able to be very compelling but also incredibly funny, carrying the story with no slip-ups. His chemistry with Mark Ruffalo and Tom Hiddleston (Loki) is palpable and their dialogue scenes are always at a great level of quality, both comedy and story-wise.Hiddleston is great as the evil brother, but Hulk is the one that stands out. The big green guy speaks more in this movie than in all of the others combined and he is freaking awesome! His witty one- liners hit every single time and his action scenes are amazing. There are also some short but very cool appearances from Benedict Cumberbatch (Dr. Strange),  Idris Elba (Heimdall) and Anthony Hopkins (Odin), plus a surprise performance from someone I won't spoil for you.Jeff Goldblum is always great, but his character ... I know this is not going to be a very popular opinion, but I find Grandmaster a bit annoying. Karl Urban has a good performance as Skurge, but just like Hela, both characters feel unexplored and pretty under- developed.My only real issue with the film is something I already mentioned above, which is the story itself. Even though Waititi's uncommon storytelling elevates it, the overall narrative is pretty much the default superhero story. Basically, if you have been alive for the past 10 years, there is nothing about the screenplay that is going to surprise you or blow your mind. Thankfully, the movie is so damn entertaining that the narrative becomes secondary to the all of the action and comedy predominant in the film.In conclusion, Thor: Ragnarok is definitely worth your time and money. It is undoubtedly the best movie of the series and one of the funniest in the MCU. Taika Waititi (with the help of Eric Pearson) molds a cliché narrative in his very unique and humorous way of storytelling, packed with hilarious comedy and phenomenal action scenes. A splendid cast with Chris Hemsworth, Mark Ruffalo and Cate Blanchett at the top of their game pull off some fabulous displays, but it is Tessa Thompson and Waititi (!) that steal the show with their distinguished performances, plus a big green badass that has a lot of funny one-liners.MSB Reviews - If you enjoy this review, please follow my blog :)
This film is amazing. I definitely feel like this film was a big improvement over the first two "Thor" films. It had a great story and it was cool how you got to see Hulk in this film. This is definitely one of my favorite films in the MCU and I would say it is the most surprising film of 2017.
Obviously Our Flag Means Death isn't historically accurate and that's because IT'S NOT SUPPOSED TO BE. It's a comedy for Christ sakes, people writing reviews really need to lighten up.Every time I see Rhys Darby I think of him as Steve from the TBS show Wrecked which was really funny. He plays Stede Bonnet, the gentleman pirate who left his wife and children to become a pirate. Taika Waititi plays legendary pirate, Blackbeard and I now have a huge crush on him.
This has got to be one of the strangest, most original shows to make it to tv in a while. It's wildly creative and well-written with humor so offbeat you don't often realize you're watching humor. However.... the strangest part of this show is that its set up, instead of being maybe, say, the first ten minutes, actually takes up the entire first two episodes. You have to get to the third episode to understand what the show is going to be about. So, be patient, get past episodes one and two, and then get ready for a wild and weird ride.
Overall this show has very likable and fun characters with a wacky comedy style. The main relationship between Stede and Blackbeard is very well done and each crew member is excellent. This show explores such great themes and it was not at all what I expected from this show during the first 2 episodes.Episode breakdown:Episodes 1-2 are the black sheep of the show. It sets up the rest of the show very well but in the moment while watching it's just not as interesting as the rest of the show and it doesn't reveal exactly what the show is about right away. In hindsight the episodes make the show better overall but they are quite boring by themselves.Episode 3 is very funny and is the exception to the first 2 episodes, it doesn't introduce Blackbeard yet but the episode Itself is a lot more fun and enjoyable.Episodes 4-10 are all very high quality and on similar levels. The show shifts to the relationship between Stede and Blackbeard and all the crew members and it begins to tell the great story, it's funny and heartwarming and definitely worth watching.The ending is a bit of a cliffhanger, a little bittersweet but a second season seems to be teased with it.Overall a very good show that should definitely be watched!
The silliness of this show works because of the excellent cast, and it gets better through the later episodes imo. It was probably more fun to produce this than to watch, bit it's exactly the kind of effort that audiences should reward- dumb as it is, it's a great break from the stark reality of 2022 : )
This show is hilarious another hit for Taika Waititi can't wait for more! It's already half way through and I don't want the season to end. HBO has been killing it with comedy's lately.
I spent the first two weeks watching this show not knowing where it was going. Now that I've watched the entire season, I am more emotionally invested in this show than I've been for a long time. Every character shines onscreen and the chemistry between them all is a delight to watch.Rhys Darby and Taika Waititi acted their hearts out in those final episodes.I need a second season right now. HBO cannot leave it there.
This is a long term keeper. Each episode gets better than the last. Great mix of heartwarming and hilarious. Taika and Rhys forever. So stunningly creative. Season 2 please!
Having being a huge fan of both Rhys Darby and Taika Waititi sinces the early 2000s, I was super excited when I heard they were co-starring in a new HBO comedy about pirates.Expecting the same brand of hilarious dry Kiwi humour I've come to expect from any collaboration of theirs, I was both delighted and touched to find that this sweetly kind and funny comedy show was also very obviously *a gay love story*, featuring the kind of easy throwaway acceptance of sexuality, gender and diversity that I was shocked to realise I had never seen before on a TV show.To say this sweetly funny, gorgeously shot little show has been a revolutionary step-forward in queer storytelling is not an understatement in the slightest. The outpouring of love and gratitude I've seen online from the LGBTQ+ community for these characters, the showrunner David Jenkins and for Taika and Rhys is unprecedented. The incredible fan-art, the fanfiction (thanks Frenchie!), the sharing of feelings and personal stories and emotions this whole last couple of weeks over social media has been a total trip, and the loveliest part of that has been to see it all held, validated and delighted in by the entire creative team that made the show.I hope HBO Max know that they will be the darlings of the streaming platforms when they renew this for the 2 more seasons (minimum!) that David Jenkins has planned. That announcement can't come soon enough frankly.
I like this show - it's weird, it's funny, but it also has some serious undertones, like not conforming to society's expectations of what a man is supposed to be and the damage caused by bullying. And despite some issue with the language, I think this is a good family show, and there just aren't that many of those around anymore.I am always willing to give anything by Taika Waititi a chance, and I don't think you'll be sorry for spending half an hour a week with this one. I have a feeling this will become a cult classic.
Rhys Darby cracks me up. I liked him on Wrecked too. This show is same sort of goofy humor. Not sure why there would be a negative review cuz it's so goofy.
Verrrry loosely based on a true story... rhys darby is bonnet, a bored gentleman from barbados who decides to spice up his life by becoming a pirate. And thank goodness they sang something besides yo ho ho and a bottle of rum at the start. A humorous look at what it might have been like, if they had a workout gym, and a complete library. On the ship. Very monty python like. At one point, the cabin boy even does a character in high pitched voice. Fun, silly stuff. More info on bonnet in wikipedia dot org. He was born in 1688, and indeed went off to be a pirate. Can't say too much here to avoid spoilers. It's fun and campy. Created by david jenkins, who has written ten episodes. Although currently, there are only three episodes available on hbomax streaming channel. Can't wait for the rest of the episodes! Silly fun, for the most part, mixed in with some very serious parts.
This basically adds the character murray from flight of the concords, into an R rated pirates of the carribean themed generic comedy, with oddball side characters. If you are into that sort of thing you will have a great time, I know I did.
I love the cast! This show is freaking hilarious!! I don't get the bad reviews, but I guess some people don't know good humor! I'd say watch it if you're in to dark comedies. You'll thank me later!
I guess some people don't love this type of comedy. Maybe they don't understand the jokes, who knows? After reading the reviews I was on the fence whether to watch or not. Then I thought I'm not going to trust other peoples opinions, so I watched and laughed... and laughed! I think the show is very funny. Can't wait to watch more! It's quirky characters/ship's crew are all really funny in this high seas tale of adventures and shenanigans!
This show made me so happy. It was brilliantly and beautifully conceived, and the cast was monumental. I would recommend this to literally everyone, and if Our Flag Means Death doesn't get renewed, I worry for my faith in humanity.
Brilliant. Absolutely brilliant. Across the board superb cast. Script(s). Storylines. Cinematography. The entire effort is just straight up excellent. Rhys Darby and Taika Waititi.. divine together, and apart, and together.Please, a second, third, fifth season. I will jump off a bridge, balcony... out of a moving car... if we aren't extended. So well worth.Do I appear to be gushing. I am.
Thank God for Kiwi and Australian Humour. Nuff said really. I pine for any break from the overly manufactured American tripe (which to be honest,I can't even bear to watch anymore), and here it is.
I'm really enjoying every moment of this show! It's got story and a little bit of drama, interwoven with perfect comedic timing and silly moments. The characters are brilliant too. If you're a fan of Taika and Rhys... this show will be right up your alley.
Just give this show a try is it brilliant. Easily my favorite adaptation of Blackbeard I have ever seen. Rhys Darby is splendid and the chemistry and story is hilarious while also very engaging and relatable. Just give it a try. I rewatch it like it's always Sunny in Philadelphia.
Takia Waititi rocks. This is another of his shows that spins a period story on its head. As Blackbeard the pirate, aka Edward Teach, he brings together as funny a cast of characters as ever graced a pirate ship.
Reminded me of Ghosts, another amazing comedy show. If you liked that one, you will love this one too. Very funny and interesting story too. Very cool cast too.
A light-hearted comedy that at times offers thoughtful moments. The ensemble grouped into one scene have great comedic moments that will make you laugh. These first three episodes made me think of Frank Drebin (Leslie Nielsen) and the Police Squad gang. The Naked Gun crew also pulled off multiple funny moments within one scene. There are only three episodes available on HBO, but it should be enough to get you laughing. - Damian at TalkTeaV.
I don't know what's with all the negative reviews here. This is a quirky, tongue-in-cheek pirate comedy. It doesn't take itself too seriously. Some people just have to find flaws in everything. And no, it's not to drill. Good, silly slapstick with clever dialogue.
I'm ready on my third watch of this show. It is silly and odd but ultimately a beautiful and very important story to be told. Thank you to everyone involved!
I agree that isn't not amazing but I blame the release strategy. I think the show has promise but would've benefited from a full-season release like Netflix. Releasing three episodes just opens the door for negative feedback too early into the show.
Jojo Rabbit tells the story of the final days of World War II through the eyes of a
child. To be specific a member of the Hitler Youth. Young 10 yar old Roman Grifin
Davies is our protagonist in this story.When the Nazis gained power the Hitler outh was one of the most insidious ways of consolidating futue power. If they hadn't started the European portion of World War II who knows how long they could have stayed with a whole generation of youth indocrinated as it was.As with youth all over the world Davies is subject to peer pressure. He's not the
most athletically inclined kid around and has a problem with the physical stuff.
He has however an imaginary friend. The Fuehrer himself played by director
Taika Waititi encourages him on. The title comes when the kid gets sqieamish
about killing a rabbit and earns Jojo Rabbit as a title of derision.But his mother Scarlett Johansson is a lot less enthusiastic about the Nazis and she's taken to hiding a Jewish teen Thomasin McKenzie. When the lad
discovers this it puts him on the horns of a dilemma.Part drama, part comedy, part satire, Jojo Rabbit has something to appeak to all tastes. Jojo Rabbit won an Oscar for Best Adapted Screenplay and was
nominated for a flock of other Oscars inclding Best Picture and Best Supporting Actress for Scarlett Johansson.Once viewed Jojo Rabbit is a film that will linger on.
This film was exceptional and one of the best I've seen this year. Watiti has great comedic vision and the cast is phenomenal. Jojo Rabbit was wierd , funny , heartwarming and heartbreaking and I think its definitely worth the watch.
It's WWII and Germany is losing the war. 10 year old Jojo Betzler (Roman Griffin Davis) can't tie his own shoes and has an imaginary friend in Hitler (Taika Waititi). He is starting Hitler youth training under weary war veteran Captain Klenzendorf (Sam Rockwell). He refuses to kill a rabbit and the guys ridicule him as Jojo Rabbit. One day, he finds a girl living in the wall of his late sister's room. His mother Rosie (Scarlett Johansson) is hiding Jewish girl Elsa (Thomasin McKenzie).This is an inventive film. It is feel-good and heart-breaking. It has comedy and tragedy. It is an outside-the-box, brilliant film from the unusual Taika Waititi. The kid is brilliant. The best friend is funny. ScarJo is terrific. There are some big-time emotional gut punches. There are surprising turns. This is one of the year's best.
The trailer for the movie had me scratching my head but as a HUGE fan of Waititi I felt I ought to give it a shot.My best spoiler free review is that this is an original, outrageous film. The emotional gamut we are subjected to is whiplash inducing, but without the neck brace and ambulance chasing lawyers.Every actor is perfection. Young JoJo and Yorkie are devastatingly earnest and so talented. Sam Rockwell is always a master. Every subtle satire is underwritten with a grim level of truth. The soundtrack n unexpected choice.Go see it. Prepare yourself for quite a ride.
Jojo Rabbit demonstrates that there is hope, both for humanity and Hollywood. By the latter I mean it's hard to imagine how a film this original got made in an era of reboots, remakes, sequels and prequels (mostly bad)The characters are charming and quirky, the dialogue clever and the plot wisely confines itself to telling an intensely personal story rather than one of the war itself. The young male star is perfect, and the other performances shine as well. It does seem though that Scarlett got less time on the screen than she deserves.The director cleverly doesn't show us certain things, and a lot of good choices were made in the editing room.Hollywood, if you're listening, more like this please.
Just watch it and see for yourself. My opinion, it was hilarious and heartfelt. The acting was superb. The story was thought provoking. It was funny at times and heartbreaking at times. I'm a huge fan of What We Do in the Shadows and I am huge fan of JoJo Rabbit. Go support this film in the theatre so more films like this can be made. I can't wait to see what Taika Waititi does next🙏🏻
P.S
I'm a Jew
Probably one of the most controversial films to come out of TIFF, I went into Jojo Rabbit with cautionious optimism since I am fan of Taika Waititi while still being aware of the divineness it has spawned in some critics. I was pleasantly surprised on how emotional and thought provoking he made this film while still being very funny without going too far.Jojo is a 10-year old boy who dreams of fighting for his country and making his hero proud. And that hero just so happens to be Adolf Hitler during the final year of WW2. Jojo's blind fanaticism is so extreme he imagines Adolf as his best friend to give him advice, which to no surprise, is not that helpful. After an accident at the Hitler Youth camp, Jojo has to stay with his mother only to discover she is hiding Elsa, a teenage girl who is the very thing his Nazis beliefs have told him to fear and hate: a Jew. As Jojo tries to learn about Elsa's "kind", he begins to sees Elsa as the thoughtful yet scared person she really is and not the monster his beliefs have told her to be.The smartest thing I can say is Waitia knows when to make a joke about Nazi's beliefs and ideals but then let the bleakness of WW2 set in to embrace the deeper themes and emotions. Within the first act, Jojo sees his world through rose-tinted glasses as he gleefully gives the Nazi salute to his fellow neighbours on a bright sunny day. All of the Nazi characters are heightened and exaggerated for comic relief from Sam Rockwell's Captain Klenzendorf being a tired and annoyed German soldier, Rebel Wilson as the ignorant Fraulein Rahm to Stephen Merchant as the Gestapo agent Deertz. Waititi takes pleasure in making Nazis the but of the joke from showing them being over-committed to saluting each other for just a simple introduction to their obliviousness of believing any stupid fake news they are told came from Hilter himself.
Once Jojo settles with Elsa sharing his house, his world begins show its true ugliness as Germany becomes more desperate to hold their ground against the Allied forces. At that point Waititi slows down on the comedy and allows moments of shock and drama to settle in to remind the audience what is the horrible cost of ignorance and blind faith. Cinematographer Mihai Malaimare Jr. switches the color scheme from bright and saturated to cold and grey as the seasons pass to reflect the change in Jojo's state of mind. The parallels to the modern day become very clear without getting too blunt.The cast plays each of their roles perfectly. Roman Griffin Davis carries the story as a naïve but yet innocence Jojo. Davis is perfectly cast with perfect comedic timing while still being able to sell the emotional beats that are needed. And he has great comedic and emotional chemistry with Thomasin McKenzie as Elsa. McKenzie displays the hardship her character has gone throughout her life and yet still making her fun and sharp-witted when she points out shallowness of Jojo's ideals. Also who is worth mentioning is Scarlett Johansson as Jojo's mother Rosie. Probably the best performance of Johansson I have seen so far, she brings a huge feeling of joy and optimism that is needed to help Jojo's growth as a character. Out of all of the adults that are blind to the horrors the Axis power is inflicting upon the world, Rosie is the only one that is able to see through it and confront it. As for the big question of Waititi himself playing a young boy's interpretation of Adolf Hitler, he handles it very well. His comedic performance is there to show the absurdity of Jojo's brainwashing from the Nazis's teaching. And it helps that he never to tries to humanize the portrayal of his character. There were even a few moments where he becomes a bit more antagonistic towards Jojo as he begins doubting the faith in his idol.Jojo Rabbit may be a controversial pick if it does get nominated for awards consideration (after I saw it on the last day of TIFF, it surprisingly won the People's Choice Award), but I feel like it is a movie needed for today's political issues. Taika Waititi uses the story of a boy's misguided fantasy and faith to show how easy it is for society to be manipulated into hating minorities, religions and/or groups of people especially when fake news and social media is present. But by the end of the day he shows that compassion and love are still worth embracing in a cruel world so as long as we are able to confront to cruelty in ourselves first.
I thought this was bags of fun, who said that satire was a thing of the past, Jojo Rabbit prices that it is alive and well..It's one of those films that will have you laughing one minute, crying the next, then awkwardly chuckling in the scene after that.It's very well acted, very well made, the production values are actually very, very strong.I saw this on its release with a few friends, it was my choice, faces were pulled at the thought of it, but everyone enjoyed, one quibbled before the film that she thought it was going to be offensive, it isn't, it's all tongue in cheek.I look forward to seeing it again, I recommend. 8/10.
With Hitler known as the embodiment of evil, it would seem impossible to laugh at him. However, Charlie Chaplin, Mel Brooks and Quentin Tarantino all made us do so. To that number we can now add Taika Waititi thanks to "Jojo Rabbit", about a ten-year-old boy in Nazi Germany while the Third Reich was on its last legs. Waititi plays a loopy version of the Führer (the boy's imaginary friend).Basically, the movie poses the question of why a person would hate another person, and why anyone - especially a child - would embrace fascism (all the more relevant nowadays). An outstanding and hilarious movie.Waititi's Oscar win for the screenplay made him the first indigenous person (he's Maori) to ever win a competitive Oscar.
World War 2. Jojo is a 10-year-old German boy and a zealous follower of Hitler. He even has an imaginary friend, Adolf, who resembles Hitler and who motivates him and guides his actions. Then one day he finds a Jewish girl hiding in his house.Superb. Written and directed by Taika Waititi, who wrote and directed the excellent 'What We Do In the Shadows' plus 'Hunt For The Wilderpeople' and 'Boy' and directed 'Thor: Ragnarok'. While Waititi is more renowned as a comedic director (though many of his films have dramatic elements to them), Jojo Rabbit is a great balance between comedy and drama.Initially this combination of comedy and drama is a bit jarring, as you'll have some great comedy moments mixed in with some deadly serious, even tragic, dramatic moments. One moment you'll have an hilarious scene where the Nazis are being made fun of, the next you see the tragic effects of their regime. This two-tone approach initially makes the movie quite unsettling.However, from a point the comedy-drama divide follows a rhythm and things settle down. As the movie goes on the tone becomes more consistently serious, leading to a powerful, profound, emotional conclusion.Solid performances by Ronan Griffin Davis as Jojo, Thomasin McKenzie as Elsa and Scarlett Johansson as Jojo's mother. Waititi himself takes on the Hitler role and does a great job. Outstanding performance of the movie goes to Sam Rockwell as Captain Klenzendorf, the jaded, alcoholic German Army officer. Absolutely hilarious.Good supporting cast that includes Alfie Allen, Rebel Wilson and Stephen Merchant.
So Taika Waititi is an exceptional director and this is proof of that! I mean who'd take Hitler as an imaginary friend (source material is way more serious apparently, haven't read it) and not just run with it, no pun intended, but make a funny, engaging and heartfelt movie with it? Well the answer lies in front of you and is ready to be enjoyed.Although to be fair, there is not just enjoyment and there are quite a lot of scenes here that will make you cringe to say the least. It is not just about showing violence for what it is (explicit), but also finding a balance with the humor. There is a let's everyone say "Heil" that seems to go forever, but the scene as akward as it is and seems, still works.JoJo Rabbit has a few things that happen in the background or are not really talked about (see Sam Rockwell and his ... "hidden" love, which while obvious is never spoken out literaly) - there are so many little gems in this movie, handled with so much care and dignity, it really is amazing. I know and heard some be offended even before seeing it and never really plan to watch the movie - which is their loss I reckon, but better that way than being offended by something that is widely considered as being funny and as delicate as it can be
For me this film is a total paradox. I have never laughed so hard in one scene and then cried like a baby in the next. It's unique. Go watch.
I've always said that a great ending can elevate your opinion on the film as a whole. Perhaps not completely shift how you feel, but certainly enhance or detract. I was enjoying the ride with Jojo Rabbit for awhile but I was waiting for the film to move me emotionally the way I'd heard it might. The last 15-20 minutes of the movie do just that. Boasting a hilarious script, unique direction from Taika, terrific performances all around, and a message that is as moving as any film this year, Jojo Rabbit is a win on all accounts. And perhaps, just the movie we need at this time. I absolutely adored this film.9.4/10
Jojo is a proud Hitler Youth member. He decides to go on a weekend for fellow brainwashed enthusiasts. However, after a (very funny) accident with a grenade he finds himself hospitalised. At home recovering he discovers that his mother is hiding a Jewish girl in their home. He confides this to his imaginary friend, Adolf Hitler (!)This film is actually a comedy! An off the wall, zany and irreverant comedy that works beautifully. It was a massive gamble to make such a film in such oversensitive and 'woke' times. And it was Disney of all studios that made Jojo Rabbit! Should such a terrible period from history be depicted in such a chirpy and comical way? Should Hitler be portrayed as such a goofball within the film? YES! Whether it's Mel Brooks (who said he loved JoJo Rabbit) with The Producers and it's musical Springtime For Hitler or Joan Rivers making her controversial joke about the Holocaust on Fashion Police, humour reaches the parts that more earnest and serious pieces of 'art' can't. It forces you to laugh at whatever is the target of the joke is and then analyse why you laughed at something that you normally wouldn't see as comical.Whilst most critics have lauded the film, there are peripheral pundits who have either said that the filmmakers have gone too far (How dare they make a comedy starring Adolf Hitler?!) or that they didn't go far enough (How dare they make a film about Nazi Germany and not show the full horror of what happened?!). The Guardian hated the film which is another reason for audiences go and see this gem of a film.But, understandably, everything depicted in the film isn't just for laughs. There are plenty of gut-wrenching moments when the full horror is brought home to the characters and audience alike. These poignant sequences aren't milked for all their worth and this makes them all the more powerful and genuine. There were a couple of pivotal scenes which made me fight back tears. These scenes were played out for what they were without the whole film descending into a tissue-soaking cry-a-thon which would have cheapened and devalued the movie's content.The film also looks beautiful with set designs and a colour palate that makes Jojo Rabbit a feast for the eyes. This film is beautifully constructed. Jojo's room, the house in which he resides, the cubby hole that houses Elsa and the surrounding environs are all aesthetically pleasing and a joy to behold.Also, check out the framing. Every scene feels just as quirky, off-kilter and as warped as the narrative. Watch out for the scene on the giant steps and the later scene with it's emphasis on a character's shoes and how this motif is used later on in the film in an extremely heartbreaking but dignified and tasteful way.The soundtrack is also fantastic with The Beatles' German language version of I Wanna Hold Your Hand ('Komm, gib mir deine Hand') and Bowie's Helden leading the way. In fact, these two rather obscure (to English eyes anyway) versions of well known songs normally heard in their Mother Tongue depict the whole feel of the film- off kilter, eschew and very original.There are uniformly amazing performances by the likes of Roman Griffin Davis playing Jojo, Scarlett Johannsen as his mother, Thomasin McKenzie as Elsa the Jewish hideaway and Sam Rockwell (great to see him taking more risks with his choice of roles after starring in the ultra-woke and unbearable Three Billboards). Also, look out for Stephen Merchant as a very sinister Nazi inspector. He reminded me of The Demon Headmaster. But it's director and screenwriter Taika Waititi who plays Adolf Hitler who steals the show. Every scene that hes in is comedy gold as he depicts Hitler as a kind of bro/dude best friend to Jojo. His lines and mannerisms are laugh out loud hysterical.4 parts humour, 1 part sentiment, this film has a power that will seep into your brain during it's running time and stay with you long after the film is over. In fact my first thought on leaving the cinema was that I wanted to see it again.I feel privileged to have seen one of the best films of 2020 on Jan the 1st of this year. A cracking start to a new decade of movies.
So good. Taika makes you experience joy, terror, love, hate all in one minute and then he jumps out and runs around in a Hitler costume.It's historically accurate too showing the polarisation of Germany during war time, indoctrination into the hitler youth and the storming of Berlin.100% would watch again.
JoJo Rabbit is a brilliant and brave attempt by Taika Waititi. This movie is crafted by pure creativity. 'An anti hate satire' is the tagline of the movie and the movie shows the Nazi era difficulties through humour and mind blowing dialogue (most from Scarlett Johansson). This was the year that I realised ScaJoh is an excellent actress. All of the cast was excellent including Roman Griffin Davies, Thomasin McKenzie (who both have a bright future), Taika Waititi, Rebel Wilson and an excellent Sam Rockwell. The fat boy also deserves mentioned. JoJo Rabbit deserves acclaim and more people should see it. I don't know why most of the critics hated it but screw them. Jojo Rabbit deserved that Oscar nod for Best Picture and even though there's no hope for winning it, I'm pretty sure the movie has inspired so much hearts and this movie will discussed in the future.
This is fantastic Political Satire; we need to be able use Satire in the correct way and Waititi did just that. If you think this movie is offensive here is Satires definition:Satire
1 a literary work holding up human vices and follies to ridicule or scorn
2 trenchant wit, irony, or sarcasm used to expose and discredit vice or folly
Jojo Rabbit skillfully offers the eccentric story of a 10-year-old German boy who worships Hitler - and has him for a genial imaginary friend - against the horrific backdrop of World War II in the third Reich's final days.The cast is excellent, with Roman Griffin Davis appealing as the little Nazi whose better angels sometimes peak out, Thomasin McKenzie as a feisty Jewish girl in hiding, Scarlett Johansson as Jojo's sweet, stylish mother, Sam Rockwell and Rebel Wilson as Nazi kooks, and director Taika Waititi as imaginary Hitler.The movie manages to walk a very fine line between wacky comedy and searing horror. It is sometimes painfully intense and heartbreaking, but it is also at times genuinely funny.Highly recommended.
Roman Griffin Davis is looking forward to a week at Hitler Youth Camp. When he fails to demonstrate his dedication to ethnic purity and Nazi ideals by breaking the neck of a rabbit, the rest of the campers start call young Johannes -- that's Master Davis -- "Jojo Rabbit". He runs off, naturally, and confers with his goofy imaginary friend, Adolf Hitler, who informs him of the ferocity of rabbits. So Roman runs back, where Sam Rockwell is about to give all the boys a chance to throw a grenade, grabs one, and winds up scarring his face and behind. When he gets out of the hospital, his mother, Scarlett Johansson knees Rockwell in the ... well, it's not the behind.All perfectly normal in the year 1945, as the Thousand Year Reich's ever victorious army is being shredded, with Russian, American, British, and probably Chinese armies are about to march on the town. It's when Roman discovers that his mother is hiding Thomasina McKenzie, a Jew, in the floorboards behind his dead sister's room, that things begin to get odd. She takes his knife away from him, but they eventually reach a stalemate, because if Miss Johannsson finds out he's found out, then Elsie will have to go. So instead, he begins quizzing her on her diabolical schemes to take over the world, where are the horns on her head * and so forth. It gradually begins to dawn on him that he may not have understood reality perfectly up to now, which is startling for a boy who has achieved the great age of ten and a half to realize.It's a weird movie about children being asked to grow up too fast. The only movie that feels at all like it is THE DEATH OF STALIN, and this feels way weirder to me. After all, one of my grandfathers was a communist, but everyone agreed that Hitler was the worst person ever. It was so obvious that even the goyim had figured it out, although it took them a war to reach the startling conclusion that someone who had been screaming about Jews, Slavs, Blacks and homosexuals for more than twenty years, and who had killed, oh, all of them he could manage, might not be the nicest guy in the world. It's certainly upsetting to think of him as a goofy imaginary friend.I know what you're thinking. You're thinking "here's an American Jew who grew up in the aftermath of the Second World War, when about a third of his family had been killed in the Holocaust -- which some of you deny ever happened -- so he has issues! It's not like some one vile, like Justin Trudeau, John Wayne, or Walt Disney, was a goofy imaginary friend, which is impossible, because they were evil incarnate."Well, we all have issues, don't we? This is one weird movie. Is it a great movie? It's a weird one.
* A question I got asked in Colorado in 1971
I'm usually quite decisive when it comes to rating films, but Jojo Rabbit has me in a bit of a quandry. I enjoyed the touching storyline of 10-year-old 'Hitler youth' Jojo (Roman Griffin Davis) befriending Elsa (Thomasin McKenzie), the Jewish girl he finds hiding in his home. And I enjoyed the general irreverent tone and quirky satire. But I didn't laugh. Not once. And since I believe this is intended to be a comedy, I can't say that it is a complete success. A rating of 5 feels a little unfair, since the film is an undeniably unique and visually impressive experience, but at the same time it seems like a reasonable score for something that has left me feeling unsatisfied as a whole.I definitely wish that Roman Griffin Davis and Archie Yates (who plays Jojo's friend Yorki) hadn't filmed an introduction for the preview I attended: it made it harder to accept them as their characters, which, to be honest, wasn't that easy in the first place because neither is particularly convincing. The adults are far better, with Stephen Merchant as a nasty Gestapo officer Deertz almost making me smile, and Sam Rockwell shining as Captain Klenzendorf, a disillusioned soldier who isn't as bad as he first seems. Director Taika Waititi mercilessly mocks Adolf Hitler, who appears to Jojo as an imaginary friend - he's fun (but not funny). Scarlett Johansson is extremely likeable as Jojo's loving mother, and even Rebel Wilson, who I normally can't stand, was bearable as cruel Nazi Fraulein Rahm.5/10. I might like it more on a second viewing. Then again, I might dislike it more.
It's been awhile now since I watched a movie that was special and by that I mean a movie that you will remember for a long time. Most of the time you only remember movies that were extremely bad or/and the ones that are worth winning awards. Jojo Rabbit deserves its award, Taika Waititi did an excellent job with this war satire. As a comedy it's just genious, the mockery of the Germans or more specifically the Nazis, the satire just drips off it for the entire movie. Making fun of one of the greatest tragedies ever, it's delicate and doesn't work all the time, but in this movie they just laugh about anything and everything, sometimes subtle and sometimes very obvious. I thought it was great and I won't be the only one thinking like that. The cast was top notch. The young Roman Griffin Davis did a great job playing that little Hitlerjungend Jojo. The imaginary Hitler played by Taika Waititi was a great addition to this story. The whole cast added everything needed to make Jojo Rabbit one of the better movies of 2019. If you need to relativize life a little bit, if you like to mock Nazis, Jojo Rabbit is what you need.
Took a dark subject matter and made it hilarious while ridiculing nazi Germany.. delivered amazing performances all round... emotional shocks and a kicking soundtrack..just a perfect movie
There is potential in the idea of a Nazi spoof but the creators are not up to par. The standard of humor or writing is very low. Where is Mel Brooks when you need him. This movie tries too hard cramming slapstick or unfunny jokes. The result is their are some funny moments but they are few and far between. The bad jokes spoil the effect of the few funny ones. When things turn serious and dramatic with the bombing it's more interesting but just too little too late. The spoof just does not work here.Rebel Wilson has the best accent and delivery. And the best lines. Scarlett Johansson as mother has a strange accent. Sam Rockwell gives a lazy performance. The Hitler imaginary friend overacts and he's the director.The movie only gets better at the end. So it neither succeeds as a comedy or a drama Or a spoof. Go watch the Producers for comedy or the Book Thief for drama instead.
There is no BUT!!!Everybody here is on point, emotional ride gallore!
And that is not the only thing,... what a great storyteller Waititi is!
What a good way to make people think!
As a German, I loved everything about this movie. Absurdity from these times is captured amazingly, and now, almost a century afterwards, we can take it with some humor. Well done, I hope this movie goes on to win some awards.